I think we're in the midst of a massive
AI [music] opportunity.
>> What we're seeing in financial markets,
it's just much more about this AI theme.
>> The story clearly within tech is semis.
>> We're very constructive on market. We
still think this is a risk on tape. I
think the market's generally okay.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Where [music] did the weekend go? Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning for our audience
worldwide. Blindex surveillance starts
right now. Coming into Monday, oil
pushing Kai. The president unimpressed.
Roy Iran's proposal totally
unacceptable. A [music] setback for the
ongoing diplomatic effort sending oil
back towards 100 failing [music] to
derail the equity market rally following
six straight weeks of gains. Stocks
holding on to record highs.
>> So we just saw the logger streak going
back to late 2024 with semis leading the
charge as well as big tech. This is an
incredibly narrow rally, which is the
reason why an increasing number of
people have raised questions about
whether things are getting a bit froy,
divorced from reality. The fact that
we're seeing oil prices up, but the
Cosby also up flying this morning in
pre-market trading gives you a sense of
just how separate these two stories
truly are.
>> Christopher put it well in the last week
on this program. This is not a
consumer-driven rally. This is [music] a
techdriven rally. Lori Cvisena over at
RBC new price target 12 months out
7,900. Edgard Denni new price target
year end 8250 [music]
5% move on semis Friday 11% move just
last week things are starting to build
and build very very quickly
>> and Lori frankly talked about how you
want the growth you do not want to go
say to some of the more vulnerable
consumerf facing stocks so here is the
question what's the litmus test for when
things are getting over their skis at
what point do you think that people are
overinvesting at what point do you need
to see [music] some sort of sea change
in the narrative for this to sort of
temper itself that's what people are
looking at right now and frankly they're
saying still buy. So right now going
forward I think it's going to be really
compelling on May 20th 5 years later
when Nvidia actually reports earnings
what their forward look actually is
>> when the earnings don't sound like this
first quarter profits double what
analysts expected sockjen 85% beat
[music] the biggest beat rate in 5 years
Bloomberg Intelligence Max 7 firms
expected to post a 57% [music]
jump in first quarter profits it's a
rally that's been powered by some
stellar earnings
>> which is a reason why people say it's
sustainable because actually the uh the
market cap has not expanded as quickly
as the earnings growth has and that's
what Julian Emanuel pointed [music] to
in a note over the weekend that actually
earnings growth has outpaced it in a way
that we really haven't seen for a very
long time. Nonetheless, there are some
big questions about the use case.
Torsson pointed to this one paper that I
thought was fascinating saying which
tasks out there not only yes sure you
can automate them are cheaper to
automate with AI than using a human and
it's actually about a quarter of them
that are potentially exposed. So the
question of the return on investment is
increasingly in focus as people look at
what the future of AI truly looks like.
>> We'll have that conversation in just a
moment. We'll also be looking ahead to
the week ahead. Coming up this week,
inflation data front and center. Put it
together. Unemployment close to 4%. CPI
could also be close to 4% when it's
revealed in the next 24 hours. And the
Fed the Fed holding on to an easing bias
in the face of all of that which is
absolutely astonishing.
>> Yeah. And this comes as Fed chair Jay
Powell ostensibly on Friday, that will
be his last day as chair of the Federal
Reserve. Whether he stays on, of course,
remains to be seen and it really depends
on Kevin Worsh. You talk about this, but
the easing bias in Wall [music] Street
is fading. And you could see this with
an increasing number of firms that have
revised their expectations [music] for
the first Fed rate cut with a lot of
them pushing it back. Goldman Sachs to
December, Bank of America moving to
mid20 [music]
27 from later this year. PIMCO raising
the possibility Dan Iverson of possibly
a rate hike being the next move because
of this inflationary pressure. So Wall
Street starting to sniff out something
different. At what point does the Fed
have to catch up?
>> Dan Iverson with some interesting
comments in the financial times we'll
return to later this hour. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 very very close
to all-time highs. Coming up this hour,
Aaron Kennedy of Clear Harbor Asset
Management as the equity rally slows.
Norman Rule of CSIS as President Trump
rejects Iran's latest peace proposal and
Ian Hannett of Absolute Strategy
Research on the big tech meltdown. We
begin this hour with stocks just about
holding on to all-time highs. Aaron
Canada clear harbor asset management
writing this has been an exceptional
period for risk assets and yet the
composition of that return should give
investors pause. Aaron joins us now for
more. Aaron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What a move in semis 5% Friday, 11% last
week. What are we 60% off the lows from
the end of March? maybe more than that
at this point. Are we in bubble
territory now?
>> It's a good question. You know,
semiconductors like most cyclicals tend
to look really cheap when uh you know
they they tend to be uh expensive when
PE multiples are are are low and they
tend to to be quite cheap when P
multiples are high. And you know right
now if you take a look at some of the
memory chip names like Micron and SK
Highix in Korea you know they're trading
at mid to high singledigit multiples but
that's because earnings have absolutely
shot the moon. If you look at
semiconductor exposure globally you take
a look at emerging markets SK highinex
Samsung and Taiwan semi the top three
holdings in emerging markets are
semiconductor companies. 37% of the
emerging market index is it. You look at
semiconductors in the United States, 8
and a half% return on the S&P 500. Seven
names consisting of 70% of that return.
All seven focused on semiconductors. Two
are more diversified, Amazon and
Alphabet. But still, they're making
semiconductors. The other five are pure
semiconductor players. So, this is a
market globally, both home and abroad,
very focused on that that that move.
>> At some point, you end up with so-called
overcapacity. We're just not there yet.
And you mentioned the earnings. the
earnings underpinned by fantastic
spending coming from a number of places.
What would upend that spending?
>> Well, I think at the end of the day, the
return on investment question for the
hyperscalers, for the Microsofts of the
world, for the alphabets of the world
may force I wouldn't call a a rapid
adjustment in the capex expectations,
but [clears throat] perhaps a
modification of capex. If we're 750
billion this year, 850 billion next year
on on on semiconductor AI hyperscaler
spend and that adjustment moves from 850
to 8 or 850 to 750 that could alter
investor investment perceptions of the
slope of the spend that we would
anticipate. I think that could could
bring some pause back into the market
into the enthusiasm of the semiconductor
trade and frankly could serve as a
tailwind to the Microsofts to the to the
alphabets to the hyperscaler side of of
the equation. A focus on ROI would be a
welcome uh tailwind I think to those
areas of technology.
>> So how much of the rally is being
underpinned by people who find it
refreshing to talk about semiconductors
rather than the war in Iran?
>> Well, it's it's it's it's a good
question. I mean, geopolitics
historically, Lisa, as we all know, have
not really in the medium to long-term
driven asset prices um uh too
significantly. It's always been a sort
of a temporary phenomenon. And I think
the eyes continue to be on on earnings.
We had 17% earnings growth on an annual
annualized basis this past quarter. And
that's even maybe considered a bit low
relative to some of the headline growth
numbers that we've seen, but a lot of
these big tech companies and
hyperscalers have been buying private
equity firms. So, you know, that 26%
headline number is probably closer to
17. Growth has been really strong
broadly as well. Median S&P 500 growing
at 14%. Uh, so this is a this is a broad
earnings growth story.
>> I guess what I'm trying to get at is
when does the real economy start to
bleed into this semiconductor hopes and
dreams that are driving this incredible
rally? Is there some sort of trigger
point where you get stagflationary
worries baked into the market that
starts to hamper this trade? that starts
to hamper how much people will tolerate
the increase in spending because prices
are going up, not necessarily because
they're building more capacity.
>> Yeah, I mean it's a big question.
There's a big political question that
under under sort of the undertone of
that question uh speaks to some of the
challenges around you know data center
growth uh utility growth the regulatory
environment not in my backyard uh high
high energy prices uh the inflationary
picture you know running above trend
right now we're going to see you know
CPI tomorrow uh and and you know how
does that feed into the sort of broader
market but at the end of the day you
take a look at you know sort of the the
the the massive 36% of the S&P 500 is
technology
uh boom that we've been seeing across
semis and uh I in in a lot of the
sectors of the economy that are much
more sort of consumer focused are just
smaller percentages of the overall index
and have you know have have less of a
contribution to overall performance.
>> We've got consumer issues without a
doubt but right now that's a political
problem. You're going to see that in the
midterms potentially. That is not a
market problem
>> because the averages don't really show
it. And this is the reason why people
are ignoring it. Even as things get
K-shaped and increasingly so, people
say, "Well, that's too bad." And
hopefully that doesn't lead to policies
that are incredibly business negative.
But until then, the music's playing.
We're going to dance. And that's
essentially what you're feeling.
>> Yeah. Energyy's what, three odd percent
of the S&P 500. Materials are less than
2% of the S&P 500. And so there you go.
These are two big variables that are
impacting consumers, but they're not
impacting prices in the market.
>> And this Fed's not going to cut anytime
soon. Yields up, saw it on the graphic
just there, by four basis points this
morning, 392. That's above the policy
rate at the Federal Reserve.
Unemployment close to 4%. You might have
CPI close to 4% as well later this week.
How much pressure is on the incoming Fed
chair?
>> It's going to be interesting. Of course,
you have the the the the thought that
maybe this energy price spike due to the
straight of hormones in Iran is going to
subside in the weeks and months ahead. I
mean, coupled with this idea that not
just an idea, we're seeing the data,
employment remains relatively strong.
Unemployment has trended up just just a
bit. If we were to see that soften a
bit, I think on the margin, it gives the
Fed an opportunity to cut again. But
then you look at 2-year Treasury yields
at what, 390 this morning and the upper
end of the Fed funds rates at 375. So
the market's not saying, "Oh, maybe the
Fed's going to cut or hold." If
anything, the market's starting to
think, "Well, maybe the Fed is going to
raise rates." Our view is the Fed's
going to stay on hold for a while.
They're going to stay stay on hold as
long as they can. And when they see some
easing light at the end of the tunnel,
if that comes, they're going to be more
poised to cut than to raise.
>> There's a threat to this rally. That's
got to be the channel for it. the move
from energy into rates and a prospect of
a Fed needing to turn more hawkish
>> and right now Wall Street is turning
more hawkish because they're looking at
the fact that CPI is running uh yes
above 2% for more than 5 years but it's
accelerating in the wrong direction how
long can they ignore that say it's
temporary especially given the strength
that you're seeing in the labor market
>> it's good to see you thanks for being
here thank you buddy Aaron Canon there
of Clear Harour Asset Management
inflation the main event throughout this
week CPI and PPI let's give an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Good morning, John. The US and Iran
failing to agree on terms to end the war
with President Donald Trump calling
Iran's response to the US proposal quote
totally unacceptable. The fragile
month-long ceasefire, though, appearing
to hold. Israeli [music] Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu says he'd like to end
US financial support for Israel's
military over the next decade. The US
currently provides Israel with [music]
$3.8 $8 billion a year in military
assistance under a 10-year agreement
that was originally negotiated by the
Obama administration.
And repatriation flights for passengers
aboard the cruise ship hit with the
deadly Hunter virus are underway. The
World Health Organization recommends
[music]
passengers return home and undergo
monitoring for 42 days due to the virus
incubation period. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> nope. Yahara, thank you. just refusing
to cover that story still [laughter] to
seeing all those headlines over the
weekend.
>> There are a lot of people who are saying
that this is fear-mongering. So
essentially this is not another co etc
etc. Then there people say why' they let
them off the boat? Why not just send
them to Antarctica?
>> That was that was a conversation at
home. [music]
>> We'll continue to bring you some updates
throughout the next couple of hours. Up
next on the program, the diplomatic
effort faced a setback. At the end of
the day, we'll have free flow of traffic
through the straits of Hormuz and we
will have an end to the Iranian nuclear
program. The end point we know the route
[music] we don't.
>> We're not close this morning. Norman
Rule of CSIS joins us next live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
some important [music] economic datas in
the week ahead. So, let's get to those
data points. CPI and PPI, retail sales
as well, jobless [music] claims. Look
out for all of that. Then later on this
week, too, the Trump Summit over in
China, Amarie on the way to China. She's
going to bring you coverage of that
event right here on Bloomberg TV. The
stakes are high going into that one.
We're told that continuously. How much
progress are we going to make?
>> This is the first meeting uh between
[music] President Trump and Xiinping in
China going back to 2017. The last one
was with President Trump. Question of
who has the leverage, [music] what the
potential deliverables are, how much
Iran is going to get in the way of
otherwise negotiations that would have
focused on chips that would have focused
on critical minerals and creating this
uneasy truce as he choose as these two
economic superpowers [music] try to
reassert themselves on the world stage.
>> This is the delayed meeting, correct?
delayed because of the war in the Middle
[music] East. And we thought by the time
this takes place, this war will be done
and dusted. The flow of energy will be
back all over again. And that's not
where [music] we are going into this at
all.
>> One key question for a lot of
strategists is whether uh President
Trump is trying to take the temperature
down with Iran ahead of this meeting,
whether the goal is to get some sort of
deliverable by the end of this week from
Iran. What happens if he [music]
doesn't? Does that really raise the
prospect once again of potential
military action posts summit if that
does occur?
>> It's a big story for us later this week.
Here's the price action at the start of
this week. Equity futures slightly
negative holding on to all-time highs on
the S&P 500 and the NASDAQ in the
commodity market. Brent and WTI just
inching higher. Wouldn't call this a
surge. Wouldn't really call this a jump.
Up by 2% on [music] Brent, up by 2% on
WTI. But with that move, that grind
higher in crude. [music] Look at this
move in yields. Yields up again on a
2-year, this time by four basis points.
392 just getting closer and closer
[music] to 4%.
>> Part of this is because you are starting
to see the inflationary pressures come
through avenues like food prices [music]
which are rising pretty considerably,
particularly when it comes to cooking
oil. It also is coming through as you
think about the fiscal [music] response,
the idea of eliminating uh the gas tax
for example, or in in Europe, the idea
of potentially funding [music] some of
these consumer-friendly initiatives. So,
it's a one-two punch here that leaves us
with a bit more of an inflationary
[music] tilt.
>> These things are expensive. The tenure
this morning close to 440 under
surveillance this morning. The
diplomatic effort facing a setback.
Things are tough for the leaders of Iran
right now and I think they're they get
growing motivation to make a make a
deal. Well, we know where this is going
to end. We don't know the route to
there, but at the end of the day, we'll
have free flow of traffic through the
straits of Hormuz and we will have an
end to the Iranian nuclear program. The
end point we know the route we don't. So
here's the latest this morning.
President Trump rejecting Iran's latest
proposal for peace, calling tan's
response quote totally unacceptable.
Bloom bas joins us now for more. Mika,
welcome to the program. What was
unacceptable about the proposal?
Yes, the White House has been very
adamant that they want nothing less than
uh essentially a promise from the
Iranian regime that they would uh you
know never try and get a nuclear weapon.
Again, this is a claim that the Iranian
government has denied, but that is what
the administration has been really hung
up on. Um the president has not
elaborated exact details in terms of
what he doesn't like in particular about
this deal. He has sent out a public
post. I know this comes on the heels
also with his summit with Chinese
President Xiinping. So we're going to
see this come up. We should get a lot
more from the White House this week too
and reaction there.
>> Make it to that point. He also hasn't
really articulated or communicated what
the next steps would be since this
proposal was so-called unacceptable. Do
we have any idea of what the next steps
might be?
>> You know, I think that we will see more
information come out, but the White
House has been very very tight lipped in
terms of what the actual plan is here.
And this also comes as they're facing a
lot of economic fallback. Uh this is an
election year. I know that the people
very close with the president are very
very concerned about these rising gas
prices that are not going to come down.
We may not even see them uh deescalate
even after the straight of Hormuz
reopened. So they're grappling with a
lot here and we're going to get some
answers hopefully this week.
>> Ma, thank you. Ma SA down in Washington
DC. There's three options on the table.
Resume the hostilities, maintain the
blockade or walk away. And it feels like
right now that many of these officials
in this administration are comfortable
with maintaining the blockade.
>> Yeah. And that's not really where people
are in the GCC. And this is sort of some
of the tensions you've got to watch
given the fact that there's an aspect of
resume military actions. Don't walk away
because don't leave this mess in our
hands. So that leaves the third option
and I'm curious how realistic that is
given the troop build up there and given
some of the resources that the US has
directed to the region.
>> Let's get some insight now from Norman
Ro of CSIS. Norman joins us now for
more. Norma Wool, welcome back to the
program. What was your reaction to the
president's reaction and how was she
think how should we think about the
ultimate path forward from here?
>> Good morning. Uh we have entered a
structurally unstable portion of the
negotiations. In essence, each side is
asking the other to give up their
leverage over the other. Uh the United
States is asking for the Iranians to
commit to nuclear uh uh concessions and
to opening the straight of Hormuz. Uh
the Iranians are asking for significant
uh sanctions relief and financial
concessions uh at the signing of the
talks before they do anything and then
to put off nuclear talks uh for the uh
for the future which obviously would be
unacceptable to the United States. Um
the uh options for the United States at
this point are as you've stated limited.
Uh it is likely therefore that the
United States especially going into the
uh meeting with China would uh uh
continue the uh blockade but ensure that
we uh uh uh take no foolishness from the
the Chinese I'm sorry from the Iranians
uh and uh u uh they don't test the uh uh
blockade and to ensure that uh we move
forward with the current uh procedures.
Nor, what took so long? Why did it take
such a long time for the Iranians to get
back with some sort of response,
especially considering that it was, as
uh President Trump said, totally uh
totally a non-starter.
>> I think there are a couple of things
going on here. First, that is typical
for Iran. Uh the Iranians do not
traditionally respond quickly. Secondly,
remember for the Iranians, they're
they're negotiating over the feud, the
fate of the Islamic Republic. They're
looking at the fine print of these these
issues very carefully. they get this
wrong, the Islamic Republic will fail.
They need this sanctions relief to
sustain themselves through uh economic
hard times with a a host against a
hostile population. Uh the third point
is that they don't necess may not
necessarily see themselves as uh uh uh
losing in terms of the clock Washington
itself faces with uh the uh rising oil
prices and the economic and political
pressures faced in the west. So that is
also underway. In terms of an internal
debate within Thran, although there is
certainly a tactical debate in terms of
concessions, uh uh Palibaf and Iraqi are
certainly not trying to shift the fate
of the Islamic Republic, they could also
wish to sustain the regime.
>> Norm, do you think that the bar is
lowered to resume uh some active
fighting after the summit with Xihinping
given the fact that there seemed to be
an effort to deescalate heading into
that?
I think it's more more accurate to say
the bar is starting to be lowered. The
president has all the assets in place to
uh uh open the straight of Hormuz and to
take action against Iran's theater
ballistic missiles and drones. The uh
president has a strong history of not uh
uh uh sitting back if he believes time
is being wasted by when the Iranians
don't take negotiations seriously. And
the Iranians are showing uh a lot of
behavior that is not serious. The the
tweets that they've put out have been
insulting. Uh they are not sending
delegates to uh Pakistan. They are late
in their response as you as you put it
and the responses are showing no sign of
concessions. So all of that does augur
for uh something closer to a resumption
of of hostilities.
>> Norm what are the concessions that you
would look for Iran to make to avoid
some of that?
Well, I would look for some sort of
response in the coming week uh uh in
which they have they would indicate some
something closer on on uh enrichment u
uh concessions where they would move a
little closer to uh giving up a portion
of their enrichment capacity. Right now,
what the Iranians are saying is uh they
want 5-year uh uh curtailment of their
enrichment. We're looking for something
uh to at 20 years, not moving something
closer in the number of years that we're
seeking. the Iranian, we're saying that
we would like them to remove their
emerged uranium and give it to the
United States. They're saying they will
give it to a third party, but they'd
like it back if the deal falls through.
Um something closer to the United States
position in that regard would be
important. Uh we can't have a situation
where the Iranians build an enrichment
capacity and then say, "Well, we'll
build it and then send out what we
produce, but at any moment we could
change that and just start building a
bomb uh if we uh decided to do so." We
can't have that situation develop
either. So some sort of structural
concession that would give the US
confidence they're not going to have a
nuclear program uh would be important.
>> Norm extend and pretend. They're very
good at doing that. They have been for a
long long time. Do you think they are
stringing this administration along and
looking to extend and pretend
>> to an extent? But remember Iran does
have severe economic problems. The
administration is is correct in this
regard. And of course, the Iranians are
hiding this fact from uh the the world
and their own people. Uh they control
the uh uh the the narrative in this
regard. They're shutting off the
internet. They're shutting off uh uh
their they're hiding their own
situation. and foreign minister Iraqi
whose job is in essence to lie about
this to the world uh and to put on a
brave face uh is trying to talk not talk
about the severe inflation the severe
unemployment the severe economic
problems they're facing from the
blockade and uh so there is an erosion
of their economic situation which can
only gone go on so long and when this
blockade ends they still face an
extremely hostile population which is uh
likely to uh uh erupt into nationwide
unrest uh such as we've seen in the past
at some point.
>> Norman, it's good to see you, sir.
Thanks for making time for us this
morning. Norman Raw there of CSIS. The
headline there, the obvious one, a
response to Lisa's question. The bar for
a resumption of hostilities is being
lowered.
>> Well, and that's because of exactly what
you're talking about, which is this
pushing the can down the road and not
giving a real answer. Why did it take a
week? Were they ghosting them? Were they
just trying to make them more dead? I
mean, why did it take so long to come
back with a proposal that we've heard
before from this regime?
>> There is this uncomfortable, uneasy,
[music] quiet right now. The president
has called it totally, totally
unappealing to him and yet at the same
time has not articulated what [music]
he's going to do next. Up next, we'll
catch up with Lizzie Burden as the
British prime minister holds on to his
political life.
Equity
futures holding on to all-time highs on
the S&P 500. Similar story on the NASDAQ
following a six-w week run, the longest
[music] since October 2024. We could add
to those gains even with this move in
crude pushing higher. WTI and Brent last
week Brent down by about six [music] 7%.
Brent this morning up by two to 103. WTI
just short of 100 at 97. There were
plenty of reasons for crude to go higher
this morning following the president's
rejection of the Iranian proposal.
[music]
Crude relative to some of the moves
we've seen in the last two months. That
is not [music] a big move.
>> You know, part of this is because people
don't really understand how to interpret
these headlines. Does it mean we're
closer to a resumption of some sort of
hot war? Also because people are
beginning to appreciate the [music]
degree to which there has been a buffer
of US oil exports as well as the uh the
reserves that people are unleashing.
These are the reasons why you haven't
seen prices move higher. Question a lot
of people are asking is how long can we
continue [music] dripping out of this
kind of regime until we have oil prices
that go much higher. Nonetheless, it
seems like we haven't necessarily
[music] hit that point. Now
>> in Iran, the focus is on tank tops. How
close are we to breach in storage
capacity? Everywhere else is tank
bottoms. This from Jeff Curry of Carile.
We have a deficit [music] today, meaning
that demand is above supply and we're
drawing inventories. It's not a shortage
yet. Punch line. [music] It becomes a
shortage when you hit tank bottoms. Who
gets to where first seems to be the high
stakes blinking contest in the [music]
commodity market.
>> Who has to cancel flights? Who has to
cancel business? We've already seen that
in certain regions. A lot of people are
watching though uh December January
dated Brent and you're looking at prices
that are creeping higher [music] for
longer. So even though you aren't
necessarily seeing the huge knee-jerk
moves in the near term, you are seeing
long-term expectations for oil prices to
remain high. And that I [music] think is
going to affect some of the inflation
expectations in markets.
>> This is how most of my mornings start at
the moment for for Lisa and me. I know
we [music] start with crude and then we
bring up the screen on the Bloomberg and
look at the bond market. What's
happening with fixed income [music] this
morning? Yields are run by three to four
basis points. Two's at 392. And [music]
then you like me over the weekend
looking at Dan Iverson and the FT
talking at the prospect and I stress
prospect not base case but the prospect
of rate hikes at the Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah. saying look the US is further away
[music] from that from uh raising rates
but you're going to see more tightening
as it looks today in the Europe uh in
the UK and maybe even Japan and I
wouldn't take it completely off the
table for the United States either
[music] tomorrow CPI Wednesday PPI we
start getting an increasing inflection
higher with the uh the sentiment that
you're seeing in consumers falling off a
cliff at what point does the Fed have to
step in especially because inflation
expectations [music] are starting to
creep higher too in the break even rates
>> Kevin Walsh is stepping in good luck
handling that situation at the Federal
Reserve at your first meeting. Unreal.
Things are building [music] and
building. Some real drama at the FOMC in
the next month or so. As we k you down
to the opening bell. We [music] are
about 3 hours away. Let's get you some
single name some morning movers. Yahi
has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with shares of Mona.
They are up 7% in the pre-market. Really
for two reasons. [music] First these
reports that President Donald Trump is
getting ready to fire his FDA
commissioner whose tougher scrutiny on
co vaccines has been a major drag for
[music] this company. and second that
the company uh said on Friday that it's
already uh researching haunt [music]
virus vaccines. Uh turning to shares of
Lummentum also surging in the pre-market
up 4.6% on the announcement that the
company will join the NASDAQ 100. The
company has already been on a [music]
tear this year up some 130% due to
demand for its networking equipment due
to [music] AI and we could see some more
buying now from uh passive funds as well
as ETFs and the chips rally is carrying
into this week. [music] We saw it
overnight in Asia and it's uh happening
here in the US as well. Intel uh up 6%
adding to Friday's massive gains after
that Wall Street Journal report that it
has struck a pre preliminary [music]
deal with Apple to manufacture some
chips for its devices. This would mark a
major win [music] for the Intel foundry
which has struggled for years to attract
large outside customers. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very [music]
much. Let's just stick on that just for
a beat. Typically, I've never really
enjoyed benchmarking to com [music]
because you're benchmarking to the
extreme and often people use it as a
justification to come on the program and
say it's not expensive, it's not do,
>> [music]
>> etc., etc., etc. But now when you
benchmark to the extreme, it's
interesting this time because we
actually are close to some of those
[music] levels just in terms of the way
this stock market has moved to see these
moves like Intel again this morning on
very little news just [music] continue
to mount higher by another 6%.
>> Yeah. And another parallel to that
moment and something that Dan Greenhouse
pointed out over at Solace was that at
that time it wasn't like these companies
were terrible companies that weren't
making profits. If you take a look at
Cisco, [music] it was actually
generating a really big return on
capital, but then the whole nature of
the internet changed. So yes, you can
talk about valuations that are similar
to the dot bubble, but you can also
point to some of the hopes and dreams
and how it was coming through in the
earnings growth. So that's the reason
why people are getting a little
concerned that maybe we're reaching a
top.
>> The spending that's funding it, a lot of
it has come from cash, from the big
[music] hyperscalers that's been driving
these names. Now it's starting to shift
to debt. Maybe the runway is longer.
Maybe that's the argument we might hear
in the [music] weeks to come.
>> Yeah, we're hearing that as Amazon taps
the Swiss market for the first time
ever. You're seeing Google go over to
Japan for the first time ever. You're
seeing all of these companies see where
they can raise pennies in any particular
corner because they want to diversify
[music] their exposure. if their runway
has gotten longer, can they get to the
sort of nirvana? I I just want to
understand what the ultimate goal is. Is
it for all of us to have our own AI
assistant? Is it for us all to have a
little dog that does all our tasks for
us because it can morph into a human? I
mean, honestly, I don't understand
exactly what our aim is other than AGI,
which is going to be some sort of, you
know, godlike automated creature.
>> Dogs morphing into humans on everyone's
mind as they're buying Intel this
morning. Obviously, Intel up by 6% so
far in the pre-market. On our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump
rejecting Iran's [music] latest peace
deal is quote totally unacceptable. The
Wall Street Journal reporting tan wants
to transfer some enriched uranium to a
third country, but it won't dismantle
its nuclear facilities. Elsewhere, the
president planning to press China's Xi
Jinping over the war in Iran when they
meet in Beijing later this week. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the two
will discuss the money China provides to
Thran and potential weapons exports. And
finally, the energy secretary, Chris
Wright, saying the Trump administration
is open to suspending the federal gas
tax.
>> All measures that can be taken to lower
the price of at the pump and lower the
prices for Americans. This
administration is in support of we are
constantly looking for different ideas.
We've taken a number of actions.
>> The US US national average for a gallon
of gas is 452, including the 18 cent
tax. We've seen a major move in gas over
the last few months.
>> Yeah. How much does 18 cents actually
accomplish when it comes to lowering the
price for people who go to fill up their
tank and find out that it cost 70, 80,
$100 uh when it normally would have cost
$50. It shows how desperate some
governments are becoming to offset the
pain that consumers are feeling because
this is increasingly a political
liability. Question is, what's that
going to do other than just sort of
increase the deficit? And suddenly
people over the weekend in my family
were getting very concerned about the
deficit.
>> Stop the press.
>> Okay. who [laughter]
>> my father opened up Mother's Day dinner
last night.
>> Why is no one caring about the deficit?
>> That's how your dad started meal.
>> We're we're definitely getting back to
that place. So, you know, there is this
feeling that maybe there's going to have
to be some measures that are going
that's going to cause some sort of
significant inflation by some people who
might be investing in solid assets. But
I'm just curious about going forward
whether that's going to become an
increasing concern as some of these
politicians look to save some of the
pain. I'm going to keep talking so you
can't respond. Did you walk him off the
ledge is what I really want to know.
>> Um I I said people are very concerned
about it. I talk about it regularly,
right? Uh there is a feeling that there
needs to be some degree of inflation or
the dollar coming down. There's some
feeling that AI can maybe productivity
our way out of this. Um but I I couldn't
totally talk him off the ledge because
there is some feeling that the deficit's
going to be a problem at some time and
he started railing about social security
and then we changed the topic.
>> There is cause for concern. Yields are
up again this morning by three basis
points on a two-year 392 on the 10-year
for Daddy Bremo 440. Right now up by
about three basis points. Elsewhere, the
British Prime Minister Kama holding on
to his political life, delivering a
speech earlier on this morning. Take a
listen.
>> The election results last week were
tough,
very tough. And I take responsibility.
But it's not just about taking
responsibility for the results. It's
about taking responsibility to explain
how as a political and electoral force
we will be better and do better in the
months and years ahead.
>> Bloomberg's Lizzie Burden trekking the
speech from Downing Street for us joins
us this morning. Lizzie, welcome to the
program. Heavy on vibes, light on
policy. Is that enough from the British
prime minister?
We're going to have to find out
throughout the day, John, as the
reaction comes in from MPs. Already two
at least since the speech have called
for the prime minister to go. This was a
huge moment for Kier Starmer and we're
waiting to see whether he managed to
live up to it. He promised to prove the
doubters wrong. He had messages on
multiple fronts. First of all, for the
voters, accepting, as you heard, there
personal responsibility for this
bruising defeat at the local elections
last week. Labour losing three out of
every five seats that they were
defending. He also had a message for his
party, accepting that emotional
dimension to the defeat and promising
his party that he actually can translate
policy into an emotional message for the
public. And that's what he's going to
need to do if he is to defeat reform at
the general election when it comes. He
also, it seems to us, had a message for
markets, which is that he's staying in
post. We saw guilts rallying on Friday
in response to that message. Today, not
so much. We've seen bond yields higher
around the world, mainly because of
higher oil prices because of the lack of
a solution to the US Iran war, but the
moves are pronounced here in Britain,
and they haven't really come down as a
result of Kier Starmmer's speech. In
fact, we've seen the pound drifting
lower since Starmmer's speech. So as his
rivals continue to swirl the likes of
Wes Streeting, Angela Raina, it seems
like Starmmer remains on the ropes. John
>> Elissi, this is why it is a bond market
event. It's about the risk of what comes
next. It's not about Star. It's not
about confidence in him and his policies
and not sure there are many people in
the economics community that still has
that confidence left. It's the risk of
what comes next, Lizzie. And what do you
believe would come next if he did indeed
decide to choose to write and deliver a
very different speech?
Well, the risk is that you get someone
who is more fiscally lax than Kia
Starmer and his chancellor Rachel
Reeves. You already have the mayor of
Greater Manchester, Andy Bernham, very
popular, but he doesn't have a seat in
parliament. So, at the moment, he isn't
a credible threat. You also had
Katherine West, who I'm sure viewers in
the US perhaps haven't heard of, an
pretty unknown backbencher, former
junior minister over the weekend
threatening that she would launch a
leadership challenge if Starmmer didn't
press that reset button hard enough in
this speech. We'll have to see what she
has to say about this. But she has
already described herself as a stalking
horse. It's more to uh open the door to
other challenges uh so that that more
serious challenges can come to the fort.
They would be in the form of Wes
Streeting as I say health secretary and
Angela Raina former deputy prime
minister. Uh but it could be that they
are prompted to challenge Star more
sooner uh because of how well Bernham is
polling and because of the fact that he
doesn't have a seat in parliament for
now.
>> Lizzy Burham with the latest. Lizzie,
thank you. out of number 10 down street
this morning following that speech from
Sakistan the British prime minister
holding on to his political life and
Bremo this was buil as a massive speech
in the UK he was going to come out with
all kinds of announcements there was
nothing in there on the policy front
really nothing at all heavy on vibes
light on policy there's going to be
pressure building in the weeks and
months to come without a doubt
>> a lovely story about a sister about
nursing challenges about what it means
to be an average workingclass person the
vibes were not enough and that's what
the market is essentially saying and
there needs to be some change. She also
talked about the Iran war and really
laid into how it was important for them
not to get involved in a war that was
not theirs of choosing, which gives you
a sense of the popularity uh or the lack
thereof in Europe and how this is
increasingly becoming a political issue.
The way that Steven Major talks about it
is political hyrionics and that added to
sticky inflation and structural shifts
is the perfect storm for the UK pound
and frankly for the rates market. You're
seeing that this morning
>> on your close to multi-deade highs in
the UK guilt market. Let's give you an
update on news elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yihara has
more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Indian Prime Minister Narendra
Modi is urging citizens to curb fuel use
as rising oil prices strain the economy
and push the rupee [music] to record
lows. Modi suggests working from home
and online meetings to [music] conserve
energy and is urging citizens to avoid
unnecessary overseas travel.
US [music] Treasury Scott Bessant is
heading to Asia for meetings in Japan
and South Korea. [music] Bessent will
meet with Japan's prime minister and
China's vice premier before joining
President Trump in Beijing for his
summit with Chinese President Xiinping
on Thursday.
And Alphabet is on the verge of
overtaking Nvidia as the world's most
valuable company with just 400 [music]
billion in market cap between them.
Alphabet is taking the lead in nearly
every aspect of AI technology. The
company recording its best month in
April since 2004. Dr. Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. [music] Appreciate it.
Thanks for the update. Up next on the
program, big techs big meltup.
>> What is the dominant theme that that is
driving all things in these markets?
What [music] we're seeing in financial
markets, both macro and micro, it it's
just much more about this AI [music]
theme. Up next, we'll catch up with Ian
Hannard of Absolute Strategy Research
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Equity
futures [music] pulling back by just a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Right now in
the NASDAQ, a similar move and a Russell
too. In the commodity market, Brent and
WTI pushing slightly higher this morning
by 2 to 3%. Not a major move. Brent
crude 104 in [music] this kind of wait
and see mode now. The president
rejecting the proposal coming back from
the Iranians but not articulating or
communicating what he'll do next. So
wait and see for the next few days
potentially. Yeah, the Norman rule did
say [music] that the bar is getting
lowered for per perhaps uh restarting
some sort of re-engagement militarily.
You're seeing this with assets
increasingly moved to the [music]
region. What could the response in
markets be to that type of action should
it be taken particularly if it comes
after the [music] summit with Xihinping?
>> The response of the last few weeks is
just to buy equities and to keep buying
equities. And this event is this morning
big techs big melt up.
What is the dominant theme that that is
driving all things in these [music]
markets? Whether you're a macro player
or a micro player, the story isn't
[music] really so much traditional
macroeconomics. Macroeconomics have been
taken over by the AI theme. What we're
seeing in financial markets, both macro
and micro, it it's just much more about
this [music] AI theme.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Tech
leading a global equity rally on
resurging AI optimism and strong
earnings. Ian Hard of Absolute Strategy
Writing. At a sector level, we continue
to see US and global tech and basic
upgrades dominating. Ian joins us now
for more. Ian, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Good morning, Chris.
>> Last time we caught up, you were talking
about a tech capex driven bubble in the
equity market. You're seeing more of the
same.
>> Oh, absolutely. You know, just look at
this market. It's really strong. It's
driven by earnings momentum and that
earnings momentum is driven by this
technological change that's coming
through. You know, it's really, really
strong. You know, I think we've seen
what's the US tech hardware stocks up
25% in a month. You know, uh some of
the, you know, the the the the the
Taiwanese stock market, the Korean stock
market absolutely on fire. Very much
this is a techdriven market. It's an
earnings momentum driven market. Jonath
>> the earnings component of it is the most
important. It's underpinned by a lot of
spending from a lot of very rich wealthy
companies who are doing that out of cash
and now that's starting to change. It's
starting to become debt funded. Does
that extend the runway or compromise the
story? It it's both, isn't it? Because
it makes it increases that eventual
fragility. But that fragility only gets
exposed once you get some kind of
squeeze on that economic e activity
rates going up. You know, those oil
prices remaining high for longer. You
know, I was looking at your chart just
now. We've only really seen gas prices
up significantly, 50%, very
significantly, but only for a month and
a half. Typically, it takes about six
months for these things to really drag
down on economic growth. But you're
increasing that fragility by going to
the debt market with people like
Alphabet not really having done so
before so much. So, you know, it's a
it's this is a bit of bit of a change
here
>> when you lean into the bubble concept,
but then you also point to the fact that
earnings are holding in. It feels like
something of a contradiction. Some
people are saying the reason why it's
not a bubble is because earnings are
holding in. Why do you see it as
potentially being a bubble even with
earnings doing what they are?
>> So, I think if you look at what
historically bubbles have, they have
size and they have pace. We've
definitely got that. You know, if we
have people buying each other's
companies with that elevated share
price, buying each other's goods, even
better, I lend you money to buy my
goods. Um, and then the that drives
down, you know, the cost of capital as,
you know, these stocks become GIF goods.
They they get more attractive as the
price goes up and and that drives down
the cost of capital and capex goes
through the roof. These are all
symptoms, Lisa, of the end to the end
phase of a bubble. Um, but it doesn't
mean you're at the end of the bubble. As
I say, you know, nominal earnings
respond to nominal growth. And actually,
that's where, you know, higher oil
prices, higher price levels generally
are quite positive for corporate profits
initially, but but then, you know, if
you see that cash flow coming down,
coming under pressure more generally,
that's when you start to see the stress
emerging in these bubbles. And, you
know, clearly that's not going to happen
for a while yet.
>> Well, so investors have largely been
saying that the tech sector is immune to
what's going on economically. You're
making the argument that if we do get a
stagflationary type of environment with
higher inflation and slower growth that
will cause potentially the end of this
bubble. Can you walk through how that
looks?
>> Yeah. So, I think the thing that you
have to recognize is that stagflation
always kills valuation. You know, the
combination of higher inflation and
lower growth is a killer for PE
multiples. Um and so you know at the
same time you have to recognize that
it's not actually the underlying quality
of the companies themselves. You know
the winners that we had in 2000 are
actually the winners in this digital
world today. Probably the winners in the
AI world today are going to be the
winners in the AI world of the future.
But it didn't stop some of those big
companies Amazon, Oracle, you know um
losing between 65% and 95% of their
value in the 2000 bubble burst. And the
key to it is that the people that are
buying their services, the people buying
their goods, they run out of money. And
that's the thing that compromises the
whole structural story. So that's the
thing that we're watching for the signs
not of stress in the credit market for
for tech stocks, but broader credit
stress because that's going to be
telling you about real cash flow stress
across the economy as a whole. And
that's what stagflation really brings.
>> You can make a strong argument for the
inflation right now. Can you make a
convincing argument for the stag?
>> No. And I think that that's the reason
why we're still, you know, we're we're
cautious, but we're not bearish. And I
think that's the thing that's got to
really change here, Jonathan. And our
our argument has always been you have to
see these elevated commodity prices
remaining higher for longer. Um, and
historically, if you go back over a
hundred years, you know, each of these
big stagflation shocks that we've had
has seen interest rates go up. And I
heard you talking about interest rate
rises this morning. So what's in the
futures market? 25 basis points. That's
nothing. Normally if you have a
stagflation response, a policy response
that's going to deliver stagflation,
it's 250 basis points. It's 400 basis
points. That's the kind of policy move
you'd need to see coming out of the Fed.
>> If you look at where we are now, the
data is okay. The earnings are great.
Big tech's still spending, and the Fed's
not hiking. It's hard to be anything
other than bullish, isn't it? Well, you
know, I you you have to be somewhat
cautious because it could tip the other
way. As you say, if we move back into a
kinetic world, you know, I'm a bit more
pessimistic perhaps. I think if we saw
oil prices up to 120, you know, after a
few attacks on Iran starting again, you
know, then you'd actually start to see
the bond market maybe that 30 year above
5%. That starts to weaken people's con,
you know, positive outlook. But but
underlying that you are absolutely right
Jonathan the point we've been making for
a year and a half double digit earnings
growth with interest rate expectations
still you know a year out down you know
rather than up in a meaningful way you
hard to be too bearish isn't it
>> it's difficult to fight that Ian it's
good to see you in person
>> great to see you
>> thanks for being here in New York enjoy
your time here Ian there of Absolute
Strategy Research just working through
some of the moves we've seen and we've
seen some major moves last week alone 5%
on Friday in semis another 11% on the
index through the a major move off the
bottom from the end of March.
>> I'm still thinking about what Ian said
that it would take 250 basis points to
really have that stagflation type of
response. Is there the political will
for 250 basis points of hiking? And the
fact that people do not believe that
there is the will is the reason why
people are saying probably it's better
to invest in stocks that can go to the
moon with an overly easy financial
policy. But then there are people out
there, some who are worried about the
deficit. And this is sort of the uh the
cycle that people are looking at. one
hand, this is the previous response, but
this is not a response that necessarily
policy makers are willing to take this
time around because of the political
pressure.
>> Give me some space here. Let's round
down unemployment and let's round up
inflation. What we expect this week,
basically in the fours, unemployment and
CPI and the Fed's got an easing bias.
That's astonishing. That really is
astonishing
>> and arguably the next Fed chair will
maintain that even in the face of quite
a bit of opposition from a number of Fed
presidents, regional Fed presidents, and
even Fed governors who are saying, "Wait
a second, guys. This is not a good
equation. Maybe it's not transitory.
Maybe we messed up when we talked about
the T-word uh back in 2021. I don't
know.
>> Equity [music] futures right now holding
on to all-time highs, pulling back by
just a tenth of 1%. Up next, we'll catch
up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Woods, Rachel Zambber [music] of the
Center for New American Security, Rakia
Ibrahim of BCA Research, and Matt
Hornback of Morgan [music] Stanley. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
We've seen the the data just continue to
be resilient.
>> This all points to an economy that's
doing quite well.
>> That's the take from the payroll report.
Not a huge change in terms of the
information. We really do need [music]
to keep that dual mandate in focus.
>> The bar to cut is anywhere a little bit
higher. This is Bloomberg surveillance
with [music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your price action scores look like
this. Alltime highs on Friday. Another
week of gains. We've had six consecutive
weeks of gains on the S&P 500 this
morning [music] down by not even a tenth
of 1%. In the face of this crude higher
by more than 2% Brent at 104 WTI just
short of 98 and bond yields higher too
across the curve. Tens [music] up by
three basis points 440 twos at 392 going
into this [music] a week of inflation
data. CPI PPI just around the corner. So
Tuesday we get CPI. On Wednesday we get
PPI. And then on Thursday we get April
retail sales. All accompanied with guess
what? Debt sales. Uh we have $42 billion
of 10ear notes being sold. Tomorrow
we've got three-year notes being sold
today. This is the confluence of issues
[music] that the market is trying to sus
out. We have inflation that's above
target. A Fed that could be moving away
from an easing bias and a huge bill to
finance. [music] These three issues
coming together are leaving the bond
market with a little bit of the yips.
And that's going to be the uh story this
week as we get some of this data.
>> Get more of that. That's a headwind to
this market. [music] Max Ker, HSBC,
super bullish equities. Lots of reasons
for it. Earnings a big part of it. But
ask him about the bond market and he
will tell you the [music] danger zone.
The danger zone around 450 on 10s.
That's where things start to get a
little bit jittery in the equity market.
>> And what Ian Har was talking about shows
the nuance of this. On one hand, you've
got a valuation problem. And [music] you
could say, well, earnings are growing so
much faster than the valuation. So you
can offset that to a certain degree,
[music] but then you start talking about
the constraint in the rest of the
economy, what this does to smaller
companies that have been the engine of
growth. You start to see the cash flow
dry up there. Who's going to finance the
AI boom? Who's going to need the boom to
finance their business? Because
ultimately business will not be booming.
You asked [music] it great. We've got
the flation part of stagflation. We do
not have the stag. You start to [music]
see some of the stag on the heels of
higher rates. Then you have a different
equation.
>> You don't see much of that right now. Do
you Edard Denni? Edard Denni over at
Edard Denni Research. We're raising our
year-end target from 7700 to 8250.
Pretty blunt with it. We've never seen
consensus earnings [music] expectations
rise so quickly for the current and
coming years. And they as they [music]
have in recent months.
>> Yeah. And you talked about Lori
Calvacina also raising her target to
7,900. That's a 10% upside from where we
are right now on the same thing.
Earnings have been growing. At the same
time, earnings are growing because it
could arguably be as Ian kind of pointed
out, not a big Ponzi scheme, but you
know, they're growing, they're growing,
I lend you money to grow more and then
you grow more. And at a certain point,
if real people cannot keep spending, the
cycle comes to [music] a grinding halt.
And that is what people are concerned
about. We don't see it now. How quickly
could it change? We have seen some
indications from credit card companies
as well as a couple of retailers [music]
that the lower-end consumer is starting
to pull back. Is it migrating higher?
And is it going to materially shift the
averages which have been otherwise
[music] solid?
>> Equity futures this morning down by not
even a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Sax and Woods with stocks holding on to
record highs. Rachel Zmbber for the
Center for a New American Security on
President Trump's trip to China. Plus
Rakia Ibrahim of BCA Research with crude
prices rising this morning. We begin
this hour with stocks holding on to
gains as the diplomatic effort in the
Middle East stumbles. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Saxon Woods writing, "There are
still some things that give one pause. A
lack of throughput in an important choke
point. Higher energy prices and gas on
the rise fueling concerns that other
price levels may follow." Sarah joins us
now for more. Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You heard the previous conversation.
Earnings have been great. The Fed's got
an easing bias. The data is okay. Lots
of people are bullish, particularly on
the AI ecosystem. What's the bare case
now? What is the bare case? I think the
biggest concern is that you have this
we've had a buffer on energy prices and
there's arguments about when that stops
out, when do we hit the bottom of the
tank or when does this really become an
issue. So far it's been I mean I hate to
use the word manageable because it's a
terrible conflict, but so far from a
market perspective and an economic
perspective, it's been manageable. if
that starts to really become an issue. I
saw a couple of things over the weekend
about airlines saying we have access to
jet fuel because there was concerns
about flights being cancelled and yet
some companies are cancelling flights
anyway. Those are the things that could
really change change perception and
change sentiment very quickly if all of
a sudden you get a big move in energy
prices because you've hit that wall. And
I don't know whether or not that's going
to happen, but I think that's one of the
biggest concerns. And I think just
generally speaking, the unemployment
picture, private credit hasn't gone
away. I can talk about the things that
are worrying. I mean,
>> well, let's start with energy then. You
brought up energy. We've got a decent
idea, not a fantastic idea, but a decent
idea of the inventory draw down. How
long's the runway?
>> I think this is the biggest question
because if you'd asked me that question,
and we did talk about this question two
and a half months ago, I would have said
that by now we would be in more serious
trouble than we are. And I think that
this is a question of whether or not it
is a adjustment that people are making,
whether there's a substitute effect.
You're getting oil from other places
that you didn't get it before. You've
got some pipelines moving more than they
were, but that's a big amount of stuff
that's not getting through. And it's not
just oil, it's fertilizer. It's things
that have knock-on effects later about
pricing that we're not, I think, taking
into account. And I think that's some of
the concern that people have about where
earnings go because yes, the technology
earnings growth are growing very hard.
But if you look at some of the
individual stocks on the non-technology
level, you've seen some reaction to the
lack of spending.
>> You talk about sentiment rolling over.
Well, sentiment's rolling over, at least
if you believe the University of
Michigan sentiment survey, which hit
another record low on Friday when it
came out. Everyone seems to be saying
next, flip it over because [laughter] it
hasn't worked for a number of years now.
But what is the first signal to you that
there is some market change in consumer
behavior?
>> I think the problem with the Michigan
sentiment survey is more that people
have been saying one thing and doing
another. So, the spending has been
coming through. Retail sales have been
strong. You've seen reasonably good hard
economic statistics versus the soft data
stuff. So, it would have to be a
slowdown in the to get to the stag part,
right? You'd have to actually see the
economy slow down more meaningfully. I
think there are some issues with the
last labor report in terms of full-time
jobs versus part-time jobs, but the
labor market still looks pretty robust.
It's not so terrible yet that you see
problems coming on in that part of the
economic data. But you start to see that
change and you start to see other
sectors of the economy have trouble with
earnings, then I think you get a little
bit of a different picture. And I don't
think we're quite there yet. Is it
bullish when you hear Chris Wright, the
energy secretary, say things like
they're thinking of having a gas tax
holiday of dropping the 18 cents off the
450 or higher on a gallon of gas to
potentially offset some of the pain for
consumers?
>> No, I wouldn't call that bullish. I'd
call that one more one more trick in the
in the book of what we can do because
prices aren't coming down fast enough. I
don't know that that's sustainable. I
certainly know the government can use
all the revenues it can get right now.
So, I'm not sure how long what the
trade-off there is and how long that
could possibly last. I think the real
question is you have to start seeing
traffic come through. And once that
happens, even if prices stay elevated
for a while, there will be a relief in
just in that alone. I think that prior
to the answer that this was not
acceptable, markets were starting to
rally on the back of that over the
weekend anyway. And I think that that
just, you know, that has been
continuing. But I really think you have
to get that open and we still haven't
seen it yet.
>> The clip with the energy secretary a
little bit later in the hour. I think
it's notable that he didn't push back
because we asked him directly about
banning exports and he did push back
very aggressively so was blunt about it
but with this he didn't and I just
wonder if that's something that is on
the table right now at the
administration something they're willing
to explore
>> he talked about how everything's on the
table and again those everything does it
mean that potentially you have a higher
deficit potentially you have more robust
spending it highlights the policy
reluctance to really allow pain to take
hold in consumer heading into midterm
elections, which arguably is bullish for
markets because they're going to pull
out everything that they possibly can to
keep this market continuing to rally.
>> Nobody wants the demand destruction.
Nobody at all. And to Lisa's point takes
me back to fixed income again. They all
want to support this. They all want to
keep this economy going for obvious
reasons. But that comes with a cost.
>> Yields are drifting higher
>> across the yield curve, not just in
Europe, but in the US as well. When does
that become a problem to this equity
market rally, these bond market moves?
I'm I'm hesitant to pick out a level,
but I think that just to your point that
drift higher. I mean, this ties back
into some of the other areas that are
not so strong, which is some of the
private credit areas where people are
still taking marks down, which is some
of the concern. It's hard to refinance
if rates are going higher. On the
housing front, it's hard for mortgages
to it's hard to see a lot of housing
activity as rates start to creep higher.
So, all of those things together, I
think, take a toll. And I think that
that's one of those again sentiment can
shift really fast. We've talked about
the narrative whiplash that we've been
going on through this year. I mean just
look at the chart of some of these. I
mean just look at the NASDAQ chart and
you think to yourself, wow, that is not
just a small sentiment shift. That is an
absolute oh my god, we better buy it now
or something's bad's going to happen. So
I think that there's a lot of ways that
things can shift and right now it's more
of a wait and see. But I think it's
going to be CPI is going to be important
tomorrow. If it's high, it's a problem.
a bit of panic buying just kind of
clicking in just a little bit. The
people that missed this rally start to
panic a bit.
>> I think it's hard not to look at that
chart and assume that there's no panic
buying. There has to be some though,
right? That because you wouldn't be
chasing something that's going vertical
the way that is unless you felt like,
"Oh my goodness, if I don't get in now
or I miss my window or I didn't before."
I think there's a I think there's a lot
of that. I think that's probably less on
individuals and more on institutions.
>> We've all heard of the stories regarding
career risk around.com being too early,
not buying into this. How much of that
is doing the rounds right now? Can you
afford to sit this out?
>> I think it's very difficult. I mean, I
think that, you know, this is where the
having a balance and being really
careful about where you're positioned
because you want to make sure that
you've got companies that are truly cash
flowing and truly growing because
there's a lot of wheat that's being up
with the chaff here. There's a lot going
on. So, it's important stock selection.
>> How much is this also that these
companies are becoming too big to fail?
that if these companies were to really
run into a problem, it would undermine
the entire prospect for growth and
productivity and the sense of sort of uh
this meltup in the economy and economic
growth. How much politically is this
something that has to continue because
these are too big to fail? Well, what's
interesting is I think that I absolutely
agree that if this wasn't happening
right now, if the AI boom wasn't
happening, we would have a much bigger
problem. But it is feeding on itself in
a way that's hard for it's important for
it to keep going, but it's hard to see
of the big companies which one is going
to have a problem. The problem's going
to come when you see somebody going, you
know what, this growth isn't really
helping margins or you know what, we're
going to back it down on capex a little
bit more because of this. And I think
the the problem is right now the
momentum is in that direction. When that
momentum pulls back a little, that's
when people are going to question
things. And if you then still don't have
the straightforward moves open and you
don't see oil moving, it's going to be
very hard for markets to be able to
digest that. Sarah, it's good to see
you. Thank you. Sarah Hun there of
Alpine Saxon Woods. I'm always thinking
about the year-end conversation, the
evals, the conversation with your client
or your employer. What's the biggest
risk right now? We go up another 10, 15,
20% and you weren't in it or we go down
another 10, 15, 20% and you were in it.
What's the biggest risk to you right now
into your end?
>> Arguably the 10 to 15% higher because
right now people are used to riding that
boom and ultimately any one of their
friends are going to have already ridden
that if it is up. I do wonder though
what the inflation backdrop is going to
be that if you are not in it and
inflation is a lot hotter then you're
going to have actually missed out on
inflationadjusted returns that much
more. I mean these are some of the
conversations that people are having.
It's damned if you do, damned if you
don't.
>> Futures right now in the S&P holding on
to alltime highs. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. The US and [music] Iran failing
to agree on terms to end the war.
President Donald Trump calling Iran's
response to the US proposal quote
totally unacceptable. The fragile
month-long ceasefire [music] though
appearing to hold. Apollo is holding
talks to sell Midcap Financial
Investment Corp. It's publicly [music]
listed business development company. The
Wall Street Journal reporting Apollo
values the fund and its investments at
roughly $3 billion.
And Intel shares are rising five and
three/4ers percent after reportedly
[music] reaching a preliminary agreement
with Apple to manufacture some of the
chips it's in in its devices. The Wall
Street Journal reporting the two
companies have been in talks for [music]
over a year. It's unclear which products
the chips would be used in that brief.
John [music]
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. More from Yahara later this
hour. Up next on the program, the cost
of conflict. We're draining our
resources in a war in Iran. It's cost us
uh billions of dollars and it's
increased our food prices and China
basically is just watching from the
sideline. They're not sinking that money
uh into the Middle East. They're sinking
that money into building their economy.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Rachel
Zamba of the Center for a New [music]
American Security from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Tomorrow, [music] the data point of the
week. Tomorrow 8:30 Eastern time, CPI.
Then another read on inflation, PPI.
Then later in the week, how much are
consumers [music] spending with the cash
crunch at the gas pump, retail sales
coming up on Thursday.
>> This is going [music] to be one of the
key weeks, especially after we put fears
about the job market to rest last week
when we had the job sprint that came in
above expectations and otherwise looked
to be somewhat solid. Now we find out
[music] if that continues through the
month of April, whether this is a Fed
that really has an inflation problem on
its heads potentially and has to
respond.
>> The vibes are terrible. record low
consumer confidence. Whenever I see that
number of all the things that have
happened over the last four or five
decades [music] and this is the worst
people have ever felt about this
economy, I know that's what you Mitch
tell us is happening right now. I
struggle [music] to internalize that
given how much worse it has been in the
past.
>> At the same time, there wasn't doom doom
scrolling in 2008. [music] In 2009,
people weren't in their bubbles of
different political zeitgeists and
[music] understanding all the terrible
things that were happening on the other
side. That's where we live right now.
So, people feel pretty [music] pretty
pretty rocky.
>> And the politics, too. Doesn't it feel
like a political political poll [music]
every time we get these things from you,
Mitch?
>> To exactly that point, the politics are
so radicalized on both sides. And in
those ecosystems, the world's terrible
on the other side or the world's amazing
because we're in control. And that
polarization definitely is underpinning
the political backdrop which does
[music] have influence over policies.
Does it have influence over markets
right now? Not so much.
>> The equity market is a better place.
Alltime highs on the S&P 500 [music]
unmoved by the president's social media
posts over the weekend down by not even
a tenth of 1%. [music] And I would add
the commodity market largely unmoved as
well. Brent crude WTI 104 on Brent WTI
at 98. I saw headlines about crude
surging and then I checked [music] the
price up 2 3 4%. That is not a surge in
this world.
>> You were like that's child's play. Are
you kidding? We've seen 10% in a day.
What we are watching though is
longerdated Brent talking up uh some
higher levels as people price out the
idea of this conflict persisting for
longer. We don't know how to price this
because we [music] don't understand
exactly how much spare capacity there is
left that still is floating out there on
the seas. That [music] has become clear
by spot price. Going forward, it's going
to be the longer term trajectory of how
long it'll take to reopen the straight
number one. And as a Ramco pointed out,
what that means to normalize flows
whether it [music] takes to 2027.
>> Let's get you the latest under Savannah
this morning. The cost of conflict.
>> I'm concerned that we're draining our
resources in a a war in Iran and China
basically is just watching from the
sideline. They're not sinking that money
uh into the Middle East. They're sinking
that money into building their economy.
So what I want is for the United States
to be putting our resources in investing
in manufacturing here at home, jobs here
at home, research and innovation here at
home and not getting sucked into the
Middle East. So here's the latest this
morning. The president meeting Chinese
leader, President Xiinping in Beijing on
Thursday. Trump will press she on his
approach to the Iran war. Bloom's ma
solar joins us now for more. Ma, welcome
to the program. Set the stage for us the
next couple of days what it looks like
in anticipation of this meeting.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, this is going
to be such a historic visit for you, US
president over a decade, uh, Trump's
visit to China, but it's going to be
largely overshadowed by the Iran war.
Uh, China and the US have very
different, uh, thoughts in terms of how
to actually conclude this war. And the
president is going in with weaken
leverage. He does not have his tariffs.
He, uh, the global economy is being
highly impacted by the ongoing conflict.
So, it's going to be, you know, a very
uh uh tumultuous visit to say the least.
>> You say it has weakened leverage. He's
maintaining a blockade over a key
archery for energy that goes to China.
Does that not put a bit of pressure on
China to do something to influence the
outcome of what happens here?
>> Yeah, I think that's what the White
House is hoping for. And I know that
some of the topics that are going to
come up also is is that uh China
financing Iran, the relationship there,
but and potential uh weapons weapons uh
sales as well. So, you know, we're going
to see what happens. I know that's going
to overshadow a lot of the other talks
initially. I know that the president
really wanted to focus on, you know,
trade of course and artificial
intelligence. Uh but, you know, we're
going to likely see this pretty much
grasp the entire entirety of the visit.
>> Maker, appreciate the update. Mason
there down in Washington DC with us
around the table. Rachel Zmper of the
Center for a New American Security. She
writes the following. President Trump
hopes to change the conversation from
the Iran war by visiting China and
announcing some deals. Rachel joins us
now for more. Rachel, good morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Is it as simple as that?
>> I don't think it is. Um, in fact, I had
started to tell clients a couple weeks
back that I wouldn't be surprised if the
meetings got pushed back again, but then
you would really run into the midterms
and the like. Um, you know, it's
interesting to me. Uh, Treasury
Secretary Bessant is meeting with his
Chinese counterpart earlier this week in
South Korea. Um, you know, there still
seem to be deliverables being worked
out, right? We're expecting, you know,
this new board of trade, maybe a board
of investment. They're supposed to do
nonsensitive investment between the two
countries. I'm not sure what fits in
that basket of nonsensitive investment
these days. And, you know, as you say,
there's still a war on and China is
hurting now. Um but they also are going
to be a beneficiary of this trend
towards more coal, more renewables, more
batteries and so I think uh well there's
a lot of different leverage going
around.
>> This meeting was supposed to happen
weeks ago and didn't because of this
war. It's happening and the war is
ongoing. What changed?
>> Well, it's interesting. So I think China
actually wanted to have the meeting
around this time of year. They didn't
want to have it earlier in the year. So
um you know I think part of what changed
is you know things have to you know
things have to go on. Um also President
Trump is hoping that uh China you know
China will see in its own interest to
bring the war to an end. And as I say
he's trying to reset and focus a focus
on trade and the like. Now he's going in
having just received a blow to again to
his trade agenda and tariffs. um the 122
uh sort of uh ruling uh on Friday, I
think it was. Now, I don't think that
changes things a lot because at the end
of the day, the administration was going
to use section 301 tariffs to bring them
back up. But we're at a moment where
tariffs on China are the lowest rate
they've been for most of the second
Trump administration. Has anything
changed in terms of the leverage that
one company h that one country has over
the other now versus when they were
previously going to be meeting? Um I
think the main area is probably one of
almost the polit the political and
strategic elements. Um I think what it
was economist or or others who have
studied this you know don't get involved
with your enemy when they're doing
something that undermines them. And I do
think that was China's original focus
there. Um what what's changed now is
that the economic costs the real
economic costs are mounting. Right. Um,
I was talking just before I came on to
chat with you guys about how um uh
plastics and the downstream effects of
this crisis are are really increasing.
Um, you're right um Lisa, the um uh oil
on the water, we don't know exactly what
those volumes are, but what we do know
is that today we have countries ranging
from India to Australia, big allies of
the United States at times, uh are
preparing for even more rationing. So I
think the industrial impacts are are are
mounting in terms of leverage. If
anything, China's trying to exert more
leverage over critical minerals,
critical supply chains. We you know and
that's something that the US, you know,
we we have a time inconsistency problem
about how to address those issues.
>> Do both countries have the same approach
of trying to saveave off any kind of
political pain in the form of uh
consumer displeasure about higher
prices? In other words, is a response
from both sides to subsidize different
things and potentially increase fiscal
spending.
>> Yeah, I I think that's right. Um, China,
I mean, both sides and and many
countries around the world have that
have that instinct. The problem is if
you subsidize, then people continue to
consume and then you might end up with
real shortages. So, that's only maybe a
short-term solution. I mean, here in the
United States, I think the instinct is
to subsidize, but we actually haven't
done much of it yet. the gas tax could
be, you know, could be reduced. Um, you
know, there are some some different
ideas floating around there. Um, in
China, they reset prices every month, so
there can be some delays in passing that
on. The other issue is China has made
more strides than the United States to
electrify as many things as possible.
And so that electrification using coal
using renewables um and you know we you
know the US government would like us to
be using more coal would like to convert
more plants but the challenge is also
you look at electricity costs and
China's been building out a lot more
electricity capacity than we have in the
United States. So, I think the political
sensitivities are different. And of
course, we got the midterms coming up,
right? And China doesn't I mean, the
what the population thinks does matter,
but uh that they're not going to the
polls and having to face the electorate
and having to face the electorate with
with another round of um you know,
supply chain restrictions and and
inflation.
>> Rachel, appreciate your time as always.
It's good to see you in person. Thank
you. Rachel Zmp of the Center for New
American Security. to Rachel's point, to
state the obvious, they care about
economic stability. Of course they do,
but they're not sensitive to the
political cycle because there isn't one
in China,
>> which is one reason why some people say
they can exert uh different types of
pressures. That said, it was notable
that PPI came in at the fastest in China
going back to 2022, [music] but CPI did
not because those companies are being
forced to absorb those margins. So, you
are seeing some corporate pressure
coming down the pike. [music]
>> That is a different world without a
doubt. Coming up, Rakia Ibrahim of BCA
Research as crude trades back above $100
a barrel. [music] Plus, Danny has your
morning movers. Intel rising once again,
this time on a potential new partnership
[music] with Apple. That stock is up by
close to 7%.
>> [music]
>> This market doesn't really bling. Just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. Six
weeks of gains. We talked about that
weekly winning streak, the longest since
October 2024 on the NASDAQ. Alltime
highs, up another tenth of 1% so far
this morning. [music] Beneath the index.
Just one story so many people are
talking about the move in semis in
chips. In the last 12 months, a move of
basically 150%.
Off the March low, a massive move. Just
last week, after all the talk of maybe
things getting [music] toppy, we added
another 11% to the rally and 5% on
Friday alone. Just massive moves and
they're still building this morning.
>> They're underpinned by the idea of $800
billion of capex spend by the hyper uh
the hyperscalers just this year alone.
Next year, the total spending is
expected to exceed [music] the US
Defense Department budget. Just to give
you a sense of the scope of spending and
where is it all going to go, buying
chips to put in data centers, and that's
the reason why people see this on a
[music] on a moonshot, frankly, going
forward.
>> The team here at Bloomberg breaking down
the numbers behind this equity market
rally. The earnings, and we'll spend
some more time on the earnings
throughout today, but first quarter
profits double what analysts expected.
Sockchen 85% [music]
beat rate, the best we've seen in some 5
years. Quarterly profits have been
flying. This is not just a sentiment
story. [music]
There's something much much bigger going
on through the first quarter into the
second and beyond.
>> Which is the reason why a lot [music] of
people are saying it's more of a
liability not to be in this trade than
to be in it potentially and see a
decline in some of the prices. That's
the reason why a lot of people are
coming out and saying you have to be
bullish. Lori Calvacino raising her
price target. the idea of roaring 2020s
[music] from Edard Denny and other
people piling on because there is
something fundamental happening under
the under the hood
>> which is why so many people are ignoring
this this move here [music] in crude
crude up again by 2.5% 104 on Brent WTI
on 98 getting used to it getting
comfortable [music] with it that feels
uncomfortable to me but does this change
the story this move here off the back of
this move yields up across the curve
two's up by four 392 above The policy
rate threatening to break [music] out
through 4%. Does that get your
attention? Closer to 450 on 10. Will
that get your attention?
>> Yeah, there's a boiling the frog element
happening in the yield space. [music]
This isn't being driven also by just
some sort of premium on top of inflation
expectations. This is being driven by
inflation expectations [music] now. You
are seeing on the longer end inflation
break evens starting to creep higher as
people price out not only oil prices but
any policy response to it with the idea
of deficits possibly never coming down
from where they are.
>> Yields up three basis points. The 10
year around 440. That's the cross asset
price action. Let's get you some single
name some morning movers. Danny Burgerer
has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Perhaps the poster child for
that huge rally we've seen in semis.
Intel up another whopping 6% in the
pre-market trade. It was up 14% [music]
just last week on Friday. It did help
along with the whole meltup over AI that
we've seen that there was a specific
report about Intel partnering with Apple
maybe developing some of their chips,
but this stock keeps hitting record
after record. In just [music] the past
10 days, it is up 50%. Now, not
unrelated to the AI trade is
Constellation Energy. They reported
earnings this morning, not up a huge
amount considering there has already
been optimism about this stock, but it
is a winner of [music] the need to power
AI. They are the US's largest provider
of nuclear energy. see their earnings
beat across the board a clean sweep of
Wall Street estimates. Again, this is
maybe an attractive area for the
hyperscalers as they look for energy
alternatives and clean energy
alternatives. [music] Finally, Madna
also a winner in this morning's trade.
Shares are up 8 and a half% in the
pre-market trade with a now a confirmed
US case of the HANA virus coming [music]
from that cruise ship. There is no
vaccine currently for it, but Madna is
in the early stages of working on one.
It's also proof of concept. the idea
that they can take their mRNA vaccine
and and quickly turn it around to try to
address any sort of of outbreaks we
might have. So again, those shares
gaining in the pre-market, John.
>> Nope. Danny, thank you. [music]
Appreciate it. More from Danny in the
next hour. I just can't cover that
story. There's a takeaway right now. Ban
cruises.
>> Joking, of course. I'm joking.
>> I think I'm joking.
>> The issue is stay on the cruise. If you
have Honda virus or somebody on the boat
has virus, everyone's just saying
brutal, doesn't it? Sort of a perpetual.
I was listening to someone on the radio
the other day and they said, you know,
the bad thing about [music] this is that
of course it's taking place on a cruise.
And I was thinking that's bad. Like,
isn't the solution obvious here?
>> Well, look, I I what I find notable is
the number of people who are saying the
cost that it would take for me to stay
home again is [music] so high. You'd
have to pay me a million dollars to stay
home again to socially isolate for
another 6 months.
>> Then we'd have a real deficit problem.
>> I [music] mean, people are definitely uh
done with that kind of response. So, if
we have another pandemic, well, I don't
think anyone's going to really respond
to it other than life is what it is.
>> Dark humor, but forgive us. You know, I
don't think anyone really wants to cover
this story right now. And on our radar
this morning, President Donald Trump
rejecting Iran's latest peace proposal,
calling it quote totally unacceptable.
The Wall Street Journal reporting tan
offered to transfer some uranium abroad,
but won't dismantle nuclear facilities.
Elsewhere, Apollo Global Management
reportedly exploring a sale of its $3
billion fund Midcap Financial. According
to the Wall Street Journal, talks are
ongoing. The final deal for the publicly
traded lender is not yet guaranteed. And
finally, Alphabet planning to debut a
yend bond for the sale for the first
time ever. This coming in an effort to
fuel its aggressive AI expansion. The
company has recently sold bonds in other
currencies including euros and Canadian
dollars, too. Yeah, the race for AI
spending is turning global as a lot of
these companies realize that if they
just rely on the United States, they
will overwhelm the indexes and there
will not be enough buyers who are
willing to have a 50% uh Amazon or
Alphabet investment grade index. So,
they're going to places like Japan,
Amazon preparing to issue Swiss Frank
bonds for the first time. They're all
going around the world and everybody
wants their bonds. Does it prolong the
runway? I was thinking about what you
commented. or does it sort of shorten it
uh and potentially put a problem uh
behind it only if yields go up
significantly? How much is that the
channel that some of the fundraising
could pose a problem if you start to see
yields materially higher as a result of
the backdrop with the war as well as
some of the commodity prices? Does that
challenge some of the fundraising or is
this the haven? Is this going to be
safer than some of the governments
because people have that much faith in
the AI promise?
>> It depends by how much yields and rates
would go up. Of course, that is a
variable that's important to everyone,
but these companies are particularly
unique, highly rated, the likes of
Microsoft and if everyone right now who
has the capacity to issue debt, these
companies have tons of capacity to issue
debt. So, if you're thinking about
runway, sure, if they want to, they've
got the ability, if they got the
willingness to carry on issuing debt to
fund this, sure, the push back, the ROI,
it's on the equity side of things, if
you start getting push back there that I
think things start to change pretty
quickly. We're starting to see that in
the margin with companies like Meta,
Microsoft kind of getting closer to that
moment, but we're not seeing that
massive moment where the equity market
just says, "Nope, no more. You're done
here."
>> I feel like these companies have bigger
market caps than most countries out
there. If you look at, for example, the
Alphabet market cap, it is twice the
valuation of the Footsie in London. So,
you start looking at some of these
valuations and you wonder when some of
their yields might trade inside
government bond yields.
>> We had that conversation last year,
didn't we?
>> We're going to have it again. Yeah,
>> I actually do think that we're going to
end up having that conversation,
especially if they do show the ROI on
some of these investments.
>> We'll come back to that with Jonathan
Golib of Seport Global a little bit
later in the program. I think in the
next hour or so. Let's turn back to our
top story. Crude rising as the US and
Iran remain at a stalemate on a deal to
end the war and reopen the straight of
Rakia Ibrahim of BCA Research writing
the following. If the straight is not
reopened, markets will grow desensitized
to the positive headlines and prices
will increase to reflect a tightening
oil market. Rakia joins us now for more.
Rica, welcome back to the program. That
quote of course was true last month and
a month before and we haven't seen crude
explode higher. Why do you think we
might be closer to that moment?
>> Good morning, Jonathan. Thanks for
having me on. So I think as we move
further out and the straight of Hormuz
uh remains closed for longer, what we're
seeing now is that there is this buffer
of massive inventories that are
shielding the oil market temporarily.
But ultimately these are stocks and
their ability to shield the market is
not infinite. Uh and as the straight
remains closed for longer uh you know
the these inventories will continue to
draw down. Uh and that buffer is
removed. uh and so I think that as we
move into you know further weeks and
months ahead if the strait is not
reopened uh you know the path of least
resistance for oil prices will be
higher.
>> I'd really appreciate your best guess.
So the blockade continues and the
administration wants to put more and
more pressure on Iran to hopefully get
to a moment where they breach storage
capacity and compromise their wealth.
Meanwhile, Iran's trying to sit this
out. The blinking contest from their
side looks like this. you've got all
these inventories and we're waiting for
you to drive down your inventory. So,
you feel the pressure. Who do you think
gets where first?
>> That's a great question. Um, so I think
that, you know, what we're we're going
to see is that, uh, you know, Iran has
proved to be quite resilient in terms of
their pain threshold. Uh, and I think
that, you know, going forward, um, I
would not count on them blinking, uh, in
the face of greater pain. Uh so I think
what we're going to see is that the oil
market is going to eventually bear the
brunt of this. We've actually have seen
quite a stable oil market for the past
month or so. Uh and you know as I
mentioned earlier that just reflects you
know the buffer that we've had from the
inventories. Things like US exports
surging uh China cutting back on their
imports. Uh but as this prolongs these
buffers are going to sort of wear thin
and you know their ability to shield the
oil market is ultimately going to
weaken. Rukaya which of the Gulf
countries are most exposed financially
to the prolonged conflict should it go
on for a longer period of time.
>> Yeah. So Iraq is definitely exposed
here. um you know their uh inventories
were the first to be filled uh and so
they've had to shut down their uh
production um you know quite a bit very
early on in the conflict. Uh you know
the other um Gulf producers so for
example Kuwait has also shut down a big
share of their production. Bahrain
similar situation there and then the
ones that have been able to sort of
weather the storm better are the ones
that have the pipeline bypass capacity.
So that's Saudi Arabia and the UAE which
are still able to get crude out um of
their countries by bypassing the
straight of Hormuz through either the
East West pipeline or the port of Ferra
in the UAE.
>> Are there similar offsets not just for
crude but for other commodities as well
because we point to the fact that we are
focusing on crude but we're seeing for
example cooking oil prices rise 5.6% in
a month. This is affecting many other
commodities. What's your sense of what
else is getting through and how?
>> Yeah, that's perfectly correct. I mean,
what we're seeing also is that there's a
massive disruption to fertilizer, which
of course is also a byproduct of the
energy sector. And so that's translating
into upside pressure on agricultural
commodities. Um, and also, you know,
things like the um closure of the uh
Qatar Energies Ras Tanura plant, sorry,
Rasla fan plant uh is also a disruption
to the fertilizer industry. And so you
know as this closure of this of the
straight of hormuse prolongs uh you know
that also buffer where you know you have
sort of the planting season um that's
taking place the spring planting season
and as the crops you know sort of
progress and the harvest season comes
and that fertilizer is insufficient that
also poses a massive upside risk to
agricultural prices and all those
byproducts that come from that.
>> Brent cried this morning around 104.
Rakia, thank you. Rakia Ibrahim there of
BCA Research. New note from HSBC. New
price target on the S&P 76.50 on the S&P
500. It was 7500. The title of the piece
though that got my attention. S&P 500
above 8K. It's possible we outline
higher.
>> This ultimately stems from the earnings
picture. And we've seen this from one
person after another as they point to
just how much earnings have rocketed
higher. Now it's up to Nvidia on May
20th. How much do they change the
narrative in some way or just build on
the idea that those profits just keep
rolling in?
>> Tech could rerate IPOs, set a higher bar
for valuations. Lagards catch up as the
geopolitical and trade uncertainties
fade. AI efficiency gains broaden,
margins expand, a Goldilocks backdrop
returns as long-term interest rates
fall, the path to 8K on the S&P.
>> Well, you can paint you can paint it
even using the jobs report that we got
on Friday. And this is something that
Andrew Holland Horst and the team over
at city had pointed to. You're seeing
wage growth tend lower and and pretty
consistently over the past if you look
at the 12-month rolling average. And if
you look at that, you could see a
pathway to the Fed looking at some of
these inflationary pressures at
transitory and seeing a path to cut
rates, especially with the Kevin Walsh
Fed. All this is predicated on this
conflict ending and right now we don't
see a path to it.
>> NASDAQ futures up by a tenth. S&P 500
futures just about unchanged. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yhira
has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Pakistan is negotiating with
Iran to allow Qatari LG shipments
through the straight of Hormuse. With
the first cargo since the war began
already in transit, [music] Pakistan,
which is mediating between the US and
Iran, is struggling with a gas shortfall
and battling widespread blackouts.
Energy Secretary [music]
Chris Wright saying the Trump
administration is open to suspending the
federal gas tax. [music]
All measures that can be taken to lower
the price of at the pump and lower the
prices for Americans, this
administration is in support of. We are
constantly looking for different [music]
ideas. We've taken a number of actions.
>> The US national average for a gallon of
gas is $5.52 [music]
including the 18 tax, up about 50% since
the Iran war started. And the New York
Knicks are back in the Eastern
Conference Finals after sweeping the
Philadelphia 76ers. [music] The Knicks
advancing to the East Coast Finals for
the second straight season and will play
the winner of the Cleveland Detroit
series. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yara, [music] thank you. Just want to
confirm that is not why Amaria isn't
here. She's on her way to China. She'll
be back with us in the next couple of
days delivering coverage from that. But
I can tell you she's very happy about
the outcome of that result over the
weekend. Up next on the program,
balancing the dual mandate. Two months
in a row now we've had blockbuster jobs
numbers. Pretty much it was green across
[music] the board. And so what it means
is it's a a rip roaring jobs market. Up
next we'll catch up with Matt Hornack of
Morgan Stanley.
>> [music]
>> We often play this game. If I told you,
if I told you at the start of March,
Stratforms has just shut down. This will
continue through to early May. But in
early May, what you'll see is a series
of people on Wall Street upgrade their
price targets on the S&P 500. [music]
You'll be shaking your head. Why really?
How? How's that possible? Earnings is
how it's possible. We've seen a series
over the weekend. [music] Lori Cavcina
of RBC new 12-month price target 7,900
on the S&P 500 year [music] end HSBC now
looking for 7650. Not bullish enough
apparently at 7,500. Ed Yardeni, [music]
he gets the headlines. He's looking for
8250 now on the S&P year end off the
back of this powerful earning story. the
earning story has actually superseded
even the gains that we've seen so
[music] far even though they are uh
absolutely uh moving into moonshot
territory at a certain point people are
looking to a question of when the
straight of moose will open and the
potential boom conditions that we would
have had [music] there not been some
sort of constraint coming from higher
oil prices. If that eases, [music] then
Eddie Arden unleashes the remainder of
his roaring 2020s that evidently is more
than half over.
>> The guys who really deserve the credit
though, the guys over at Barclays, Venu
and the team a raising the price tag on
the S&P right in the thick of it near
the end [music] of March, right in the
thick of it where things were getting a
bit scary and then they raised their
price target higher, ignoring the Middle
East and focused [music] on the
earnings. It's notable that they're
getting more cautious now and actually
going market weight because they think
that maybe some of these gains [music]
have uh already reached the point where
they can stay for a while.
>> Here are the scores this morning.
Futures just about unchanged on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ going nowhere also
[music]
on the Russell down by close to a tenth
of 1%. Crude is elevated inching higher
Bren and WTI and bond yields grinding
higher as well up [music] by three basis
points on twos. Likewise on 10 your
10year 440. The Fed in focus under
surveillance [music] this morning
balancing the dual mandate.
>> Two months in a row now we've had
blockbuster jobs numbers and the really
interesting thing is that we [music]
look at these things that you guys do to
I'm sure called heat maps where you look
by category like where's the green and
where's the red and pretty much it was
green across the board. [music] And so
what it means is it's a a rip roaring
jobs market.
>> So here's the latest this morning. With
the job market showing solid signs of
gains, Fed officials are turning
attention to a fresh batch of inflation
data due out through this week. starting
with CPI tomorrow. Joining us now is
Matt Hornback of Morgan Stanley. Matt,
good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Thanks.
>> Set the stage for us. What you expecting
from CPI, PPI, the inflationary reads
this week?
>> Yeah, so this month we're definitely
going to have a bit of a spicier
inflation report. Um, you know, it
ultimately it matters how all of these
inflation numbers that we get this week
come come together to form a PCE
inflation forecast. So we've got CPI,
PPI, import prices. All three of them
contribute in their own ways to what we
end up getting in PCE. And of course
that's the important number for the
Federal Reserve. That is the inflation
metric that they are targeting for now.
Perhaps for now.
>> You think that changes?
>> No. No, we don't. We don't. Uh I was
just baiting you. I guess
>> don't bait me and then say that. Kevin
Walsh suggested maybe in his hearing
that things might change. There are a
million in one ways of slicing and
dicing inflation data and if you take
out enough of the line items you will
get the number that you want to get. Uh
I I do think though that there are some
really interesting uh research notes out
there that do look at different types of
trim mean measures of inflation. How how
are you supposed to trim one side versus
the other? It's it's a fascinating topic
and I actually look forward to any
research that the new Fed uh will end up
delivering to us.
>> The fear is that the new Fed will look
for a framework that can give it a green
light to be more dovish in the light of
inflation that still is running hotter
than expected but also that isn't
necessarily transitory.
How much is the market pricing that
reality in right now? So when we look at
CPI fixings, it's um it's a smaller
market. It gets a lot of attention from
people that do a lot of work on
inflation. You actually see inflation
coming down in that market price quite a
bit into the middle and end of the year.
You know, the question is how much of
that decline in inflation that's priced
into the market is truly an expectation
amongst investors? How much of it is
risk premium amongst investors? because
we know oil prices are moving quite a
lot every single day and they can have a
big influence on the path of inflation
into the end of the year.
>> Okay, I understand all of that and why
you could say that's transitory, why it
has been in the past. At the same time,
if you look at core PCE, the key metric
that the Fed looks at, it actually is
rising faster than CPI and it's on the
heels of a lot of the infrastructure
spending by the hyperscalers. This is
the AI trade coming out in higher
inflation that is going to be passed
along to people in the form of higher
goods in different pockets. At what
point do you have to look at that and
say structurally there is a higher
inflation embedded in here regardless of
oil prices?
>> Well, this is a this is a good point
because it's not entirely clear that
companies are passing on as much of
these additional costs as you might have
otherwise thought. Remember a year ago
right after liberation day many in the
economics profession thought that
companies were going to pass on all of
the tariff related costs and what we
have seen is that they did not do that.
Um they maintain their profit margins.
They actually leaned on their labor
force in the form of less hiring in the
form of increasing wages at a lower or a
slower rate than what they had done in
previous years. So companies actually
did not pass on as much of the tariff
related costs as people originally
thought. And the question then becomes
what about all these additional costs
that now companies are facing energy
costs costs related to building
infrastructure related to AI? How much
of those costs are they going to be able
to pass on? The labor market has almost
produced no jobs over the past 12
months. So in some ways it's become more
difficult we think for companies to pass
on these costs than it was 2 or 3 years
ago when the consumer was getting a lot
of money from the government allowing
them to absorb those costs much more
easily than they can today.
>> Do you think this Fed sits this out for
the rest of the year? So that is our
current forecast that the Fed stays on
hold uh with the funds rate at 3 and
3/4% upper bound and then we start to
see some rate cuts in the first part of
2027.
>> What's driving that unemployment
inflation one side of the mandate versus
the other both?
>> It's it's definitely the inflation side
of the mandate. We don't see the labor
market cracking. We do see inflation
coming down in some ways very much in
line with how markets are pricing. the
inflation
point of of of this outlook. And so if
you get the lower rates of inflation,
then presumably the Fed will continue to
lower rates a modest amount from here.
>> Matt Hornbeck of Morgan Standing. Matt,
thank you. Appreciate it. Set in the
stage for a Fed to do nothing in the
year ahead,
>> which is consensus right now. Does Kevin
Worsh have the space politically to do
nothing? And does he have compatriots
who are willing to do nothing? And does
signaling matter? Right? I mean, if they
do nothing with a hawkish bias,
potentially of a hiking bias, is that
very different than staying on hold with
an easing bias, even if eventually the
next move is a cut.
>> Doing nothing in an environment like
this one is doubbish.
>> Without a doubt, you're maintaining an
easing bias. I think that's massively
doubbish. Inflation at four,
unemployment at four, growth is robust,
and tech companies are spending like
there's no tomorrow. If Matt's right
though, and essentially companies can't
pass along the costs, so you don't get
much higher inflation, that's going to
cause margin pressure. And that's an
argument for bonds over stocks, which
I've not heard anybody make truly,
because that's going to be negative for
stocks and that's going to be negative
for the earnings. So far, the earnings
have actually kept pace. They have been
able to pass along all those costs. Is
that starting to change given the hiring
[music] backdrop?
>> Can I stop worrying about the deficit
then?
>> Can you stop?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, my father asked me that last
night.
>> You just made an argument for bonds for
it.
You know, I [music] can make an argument
any which [laughter] way. I'm just
saying if that's true,
>> stop worrying about the deficit. Thank
you.
>> All right, that's the message to Bremo's
Dad. Stop worrying [music] from Matt
Hornback of Morgan Stanley. Yields up
this morning by four basis points. Up
next, Jonathan Golib of Seapport
Research Partners. The third hour of
Blindberg surveillance around the
corner.
I think we're in the midst of a massive
AI opportunity. [music]
>> What we're seeing in financial markets,
it's just much more about this AI theme.
>> The story clearly within tech is semis.
>> We're very constructive on market. We
still think this is a risk on tape.
>> I think the market's generally okay.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now
and your scores look like this. Alltime
highs on the S&P 500 just about holding
on to those gains from last week. Six
weeks [music] of gains on the NASDAQ up
this morning by a tenth of 1% and the
rally in chips continues. [music] Check
out Intel in the pre-market. Turn to
crude. We're ignoring this on Bren and
on WTI in [music] Shinkaya. The
president saying the Iranian pro
proposal is totally unacceptable. Brena
104, WTI 98. That's driving this move in
the bond market. Yields up [music] again
across the curve. Two's up to 392, 10's
up to 439 going into inflation data
through this week. CPI [music] tomorrow,
PPI after that. The Federal Reserve
firmly on hold at the moment. That's
unlikely to change, [music] but that is
not changing. The bullish view on Wall
Street this morning. Already from
Friday, RBC new price [music] target
higher. Over the weekend, Edard Denny
new price target higher. This morning,
HSBC new [music] price target higher.
>> And this is on the heels of earnings
that have come in better than expected
again and again. Yes, it is being fueled
by big tech, [music] but it's not just
coming from big tech. It's also coming
from some of the retail sectors,
particularly from some of the biggest uh
the biggest firms that [music] can
actually absorb some of the costs
better. We're seeing nodes of
productivity in a number of these
companies. The picture has been
incredibly rosy with [music] this
particular earning season. There's only
17% left to go. A lot of that is Nvidia
on May 20th. If you get more of the
same, do you get more upgrades to the
Edyard Denny Heights of 8200?
>> People piling in. The meltup continues
in chips. The [music] moves we've seen
there amazing. We've gone through the
numbers a few times. Up 150% in the last
12 months. Big [music] chunk of that
coming in the last 30 days or so. Regret
minimization year end. Where do you want
to be? We reflected on this question
earlier on this morning. I think it's an
important one. How do you want to be
wrong if you are going to be wrong? Do
you want to see this market go up
another 20% and not be part of it or
drop 20% and be part of it?
>> You asked me this [music] before and I
said probably the upside that you don't
want to miss the upside rally. I would
add to that that right now the
inflationary backdrop will not run away.
It's not 9% but the idea that it's at 3
or 4% even potentially by year end means
you're not getting paid to be in
anything else. Are you going to go to
cash? Are you going to go to gold? Are
you going to go to bonds? Where else do
you go if you ultimately want to keep
pace and get some returns? That's the
reason why people are still being
[music] pushed into risk even though you
could argue that rates are relatively
high versus the pre- pandemic reality
[music] at least since the financial
crisis. So you're looking at that and
that's part of what's pushing people to
be buyers even at these high levels.
>> Not for me to say that there isn't a
bare case. Just to line up where things
are right now. Fed has an easing bias.
Unemployment's close to 4%. Data is
okay. Earnings are super super powerful.
and tech companies are still spending.
How do you fade that? That's the
challenge for the bears right now.
That's the challenge.
>> I know. I hear about it. And it's, you
know, look, if you're a bear, here's the
here's [music] the potential saving
grace for you. You've been blown out.
You've really had lost a lot of money.
The bear case is that potentially you
get consumers starting to feel a pinch
[music] and they cannot absorb the cost
and companies uh can't absorb the costs
any longer without necessarily cutting
their margins. [music] Then you have
reality biting some of the earnings. And
what we saw so far in Q1 earnings was
backward-looking. That is the bare case
that has to come through, especially
with a spike in crude.
>> We do have this uncomfortable moment in
the Middle East right now. The president
saying the Iranian [music] proposal is
totally unacceptable and yet no follow
through. Not communicating what the next
steps are. It's an odd in the story this
morning.
>> Yeah, the bar is getting lower for
potential military action and response.
[music] At the same time, right now, the
blockade is holding firm and that quiet
is enough for people to move on. crude
up 3% 104 on Brent. Equities [music]
just about unchanged. Coming up this
hour, Jonathan Golib of Seapport
Research Partners as stocks notch a
sixth week of gains. James Steel of HSBC
on gold safe haven status and Nancy
Lazar of Piper Sandler on a resilient US
economy. We begin this hour with stocks
holding near record highs despite
renewed tensions in the Middle East.
Jonathan Colb of Seapport Research
Partners writing, "The theme is the
same, a market driven by earnings, not
speculation." Jonathan joins us now for
more. Jonathan, good morning.
>> Good morning. Good to see you. Let's do
the earnings story. How powerful has
earning season been so far?
>> I mean, earnings grow grew 21% this
earning season and we're expected to see
something that's it's not that strong
for the full year, but maybe it'll be 16
or 18% for the full year. I mean, the
the consensus is for 21% for the whole
year. I want to get back to something
that Lisa was saying. You saying like,
"Give me the bare case." and it's not
normally like you. But let me tell you a
couple of things that I think that maybe
we're not thinking about. The um the
semiis names are booking revenues, but
when they sell it to a hyperscaler, they
don't take the expense. They advertise
it over four or five years. So you you
book all of the revenues on the semis,
but the hyperscalers do not book the
expense all at once. That gets spread
out over a long time. So the earnings,
you know, the earnings picture forward.
If you wanted to build a bare case,
>> please,
>> it's that the hypers scalers have more
weakness to go on the earnings that is
not coming into the numbers. I'll I'll
I'll highlight something else. Um, on
the energy side and the energy earnings
look unbelievable for the rest of this
year, but the futures curve is saying
that oil prices will eventually roll
over. three or four percent of the
upside in the of earnings in the last
month or so has been higher oil prices.
And the assumption the market has now is
it benefits the oil companies and it
doesn't hurt the consumer and it doesn't
hurt industrials. Now, right now the
economic data is saying that's true. If
you want to build a bare case,
>> please
>> the bare case would be that next year
you're going to see a rollover in the in
the energy story and that hasn't yet
that that's not really in in in the
>> this is the happiest lease has been all
morning.
>> Well, I I've never heard Jonathan I came
prepared for this.
>> Fantastic. It's really great. I mean,
honestly, when has Jonathan Gallop ever
come in here and said, "I want to help
you build a bare case." I was expecting
hate this morning, but no. This is
fantastic. Well, but mind you, there's a
21% growth rate. And we know trees don't
grow to the sky. This is, you know, this
the only time we see growth like this is
when you're leaving a recession and
everyone underestimates the bounce off
the bottom
>> recoveries
>> in recoveries. And this is not a
recovery story. And also, you're right
in in in the earnings season, it's kind
of everywhere. The the financials um
Okay, so I I'm going to I'll give you
another kind of like bearish tilt is the
financials are are just are just
crushing it. But a lot of that was on
first quarter trading activity. And when
did the trading happen? In the month of
February leading into the war, it has
not carried through in March and and
April because once investors got
possession. Now I'll I'll I'll give you
the other side to a question that that
you were asking.
>> So we don't need to ask any question.
>> NO, I WAS LISTENING TO YOUR segment
John. [laughter]
>> This is fantastic.
>> But you know, you you were kind of
saying is, you know, would you rather be
wrong to the upside or wrong to the
downside?
>> Yeah. You think
>> the hedge fund community has so
massively derisked they've said we would
rather be we would rather protect
ourselves in the downside than than
participate on the upside. The upside
risk here is that the hedge fun
community is so under risk that if
things resolve themselves reasonably
that they end up relevering into this
and you get a really big upside u you
know on on on the themes that we're
seeing.
>> So are you bullish or bearish? I mean
where do you line up on this? eyeballs.
[laughter] I'm throwing your bone. But
no, I'm No, listen. But I do think that
it's really important that you calibrate
these things. But no, I think things are
are strong. I do think that the hypers
scalers are going to be facing more of
an earnings headwind than is is in there
because people don't understand the
accounting that you advertise these
expenses. They're not flowing into the
earnings right now. But the semi story
it looks quite real. So I was struck by
this report or this paper that came out
in the past couple of weeks and Torson
Slock pointed to it over the weekend in
his weekend reading which I love love
having um talking about how a lot of
companies will not replace humans with
AI yet because the humans are cheaper
right now than having the AI solution.
How much are you not seeing the adoption
that could come and frankly the return
on investment being explained by just
the the average company in a way that
can justify some of the spending in the
near term that can continue the
financing to semiconductors in the near
term?
>> Well, I also think that in in the near
term, you have these legacy systems that
underpin our our businesses that you
that you're not just going to turn off
quickly. So you're keeping the staff to
maintain these systems while you hire
teams of young people to do this these
you know this this new AI work and and u
and and kind of replace your code. So I
I think I I don't think you're going to
see I mean look look you see the
employment data the employment data is
not saying everyone's more efficient
because of hey fire everybody. the
employment data is saying is yes, we
need the old staff and then we need
people to help transition and build the
build new platforms and and the like.
Eventually, we're going to become more
efficient, but uh but right now right
now this is a build story, not an
efficiency story.
>> What should we ask next, John? I'm
joking. Look at the moves of chips this
morning. Intel up again. This mount up
continues. I'm getting questions from
Bloomberg subscribers to ask you, so I
don't have to ask anything this morning.
Clearly on chips, how cyclical is that
sector? Typically, it's boom, bust,
boom, bust. And now it feels like we've
got these massive secular tailwinds with
short capacity. Everyone's trying to
build things out. How long's the runway?
How cyclical is this story?
>> It it it is a this is like the debate
when we we get together clients in in a
room to together. Um it is more cyclical
than over the over the long run there
will be cyclicality in these, but when
you're building out anything that's new,
you lose the cyclicality for the secular
trend. The capex cycle is so strong that
this is a ci there will be cyclical
demand again but it may be cyclical
demand in 2028 or 2029 and it's not
cyclical demand.
>> When do people start to care about that?
>> When
>> when do people start to care about that?
>> Well, these things are all always will
carry a lower valuation, a lower PE
multiple because there is cyclicality in
these things eventually. But right now
the the multiples on these are so low
there. They're trading so cheaply
because the earnings are great and
people say yes, but they're cyclical and
they're really these things are on sale.
>> What do you think is the most fragile
piece of the demand backdrop for the AI
ecosystem right now? Is it the spending
commitments of the open AIS, the
anthropics? Is it the spending, the
total capex intentions coming from the
hyperscalers? Where do you see the weak
spots, the weaker links? Well, I I I'll
tell you what I what I see maybe the
opportunity um here is there are a
number of areas that have just gotten
merc mercilessly beaten up and I'm
thinking about software because there's
assumption that these companies are
going to get put out of business and
that there's no terminal value and
there's been no differentiation
whatsoever between those software
companies that are going to continue to
be success stories and those that are
going to fall apart. And there's more
opportunity in software than anywhere
else in the market to pick those
winners. The this the market has
basically sold everything down together
and and it's it's a real opportunity.
>> Jonathan, it's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. I appreciate it.
Jonathan Golov, Seport Research Partners
with one foot in the bull camp and one
foot explaining the bare thesis.
explaining that he acknowledges that the
bearer thesis can be made and the reason
why he can ignore it is because he can
come out with the counterarguments which
is just an incredible uh incredible
valuation story. When you ask where are
the weakest links he tells you where the
biggest opportunities are which gives
you a sense of the sentiment and frankly
he's not alone. A lot of people agree
with him.
>> I noticed the same thing. I just like
John I didn't want to push back. You
never answered a question but it doesn't
matter. Up next on the program we'll get
you more on these big moves. We'll hear
from James Steel of HSBC as well. In the
meantime, let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey, Yihara.
>> Hi, John. [music] The US and Iran
failing to agree on terms to end the
war. President Donald Trump calling
Iran's response to the [music] US
proposal quote totally unacceptable, but
leaving it there with no new details on
the path forward. The fragile month-long
[music] ceasefire though appearing to
hold. The president's planning to press
China's Xiinping over the war in Iran
when they meet in Beijing later this
week. Sources [music] telling us here at
Bloomberg, Trump will bring up the money
China provides to Tyrron and potential
weapons exports.
And UK Prime Minister Kier Starmer says
he'll contest any leadership challenge
amid calls [music] for his departure
after a big loss for labor in local
elections. Stormer [music] saying
failure to get things right on the part
of his party could allow populist forces
to steer Britain down a dark path.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the Morning
Calls, plus James Steel of HSBC on gold
safe haven status. That conversation
just around the corner live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Just look at this market. It's really
strong. It's driven by earnings
momentum. And that earnings momentum is
driven [music] by this technological
change that's coming through. If you see
that cash flow coming down, coming under
pressure more generally, [music]
that's when you start to see the stress
emerging in these bubbles. We're
cautious, but we're not bearish. How
many times we heard that this morning in
Harlet there of Absolute Strategy
Research? We caught up with Jonathan God
[music] just moments ago who volunteered
the bare case for equities before
telling us he was bullish and this is
why.
>> The bear case actually is quite
convincing. I was really sold just I
know everyone's shocked, but I was low
for that promo.
>> Well, I mean honestly, his point was
actually a really good one. I have to
look more into this the idea that a lot
of the hyperscalers are not booking the
costs even as the uh semiconductors book
the purchases and the profits. So
there's a mismatch here in the
understanding at least in a financial
[music] accounting me method of how much
they're actually spending at the same
time that bond investors are having to
spend [music] billions upon billions of
dollars.
>> Fixed income investors getting a little
bit queasy about how much they are
funding right now.
>> If they are it's not showing up in their
bids and that I think is becoming an
issue. So at what point does their
queasiness get expressed in some sort of
push back? [music]
>> Not seeing any queasiness or push back
right now at the equity market level at
the index level on the S&P 500 record
highs into the weekend this morning.
[music] Futures negative by just a tenth
of 1% on the NASDAQ down by a tenth of
1%. Also want to turn to crude just
briefly. Brent and WTI inching just a
little bit higher. Talked a few times
already this morning about this uneasy
uncomfortable [music] calm. The
president saying the Iranian proposal is
totally unacceptable, but not outlining
his next steps or what happens next in
any way, [music] shape or form.
>> And the market's sort of taking this as
status quo that the blockade will remain
and most people do not expect any kind
of military action in the near term,
especially [music] not when there is a
meeting between President Trump and
Xiinping of China. Key question to me,
are people looking for deliverables from
this [music] summit between the Chinese
and US leaders that there might be some
sort of leverage exerted in this Iranian
war [music] or are people just ignoring
it because they cannot analyze it and
they have been absolutely overwhelmed by
the physical crude capacity that was
left that did uh sort of put to [music]
bed some of the most bearish or bullish
I guess calls on uh oil.
>> Yes,
>> thanks.
>> Without a doubt the last one, right?
That's what it's [music] felt like for a
long long time now, particularly the
last several weeks.
>> How do you analyze something that is not
analyzable? You can't predict this. You
can't get an edge. So, people are
ignoring it and focusing on
semiconductors. [music]
>> With that moving crude, yields up. Intel
2 yields high this morning up by three
basis points. The 2-year 392 [music] ts
at 439. That's the price action. Here
are your morning calls. First up, UBS
Dank running down to neutral saying
positive demand is already priced
[music] into the stock. Your second call
from Bernstein raising its price target
on Delta citing better fuel insulation.
And finally, [music]
Argus upgrading BP to a bike, citing
increased upstream production and strong
all trading contributions. That name is
up by [music] close to 2% this morning.
Let's talk about commodities. Let's talk
about gold retreating as the US and Iran
failed to reach a peace agreement. James
Steele of HSBC writing, "The slide in
gold should be viewed in terms of the
liquidation, not as evidence that gold
is no longer a safe haven." James joins
us now for more. James, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Want to give you some space just to
explain what you mean by that quote.
>> Well, I think bullion came in for some
and and I'm not an apologist for bullion
just because I'm the the precious metals
analyst. Uh but it did come in for some
criticism that it didn't rally in the
wake of the strikes on Iran. It rallied
the first day uh and then has proceeded
basically to decline since then more or
less. And really that's because gold is
in addition to being a safe haven, it's
also an insurance policy. and the
decline in equities that happened just
after the the war and the the the higher
oil prices combined with yields, all of
which strengthened the dollar uh really
prompted liquidation in the gold market,
especially with the equity weakness uh
when it was necessary to raise cash for
margin calls. So, so gold did uh what
it's supposed to do, which is to provide
you with a safe harbor and and cash when
you need it. We should probably define
what a safe haven actually is then
because typically I think for myself I'd
be thinking how does it correlate with
risk assets? What happens if stocks go
down and if it posit if it correlates
positively with risk then I would
question whether it is a safe haven.
What is the definition of a haven?
>> Well I think a safe haven is a mixture
of a quality asset uh plus the fact that
it is not as correlated with paper
instruments which which gold
traditionally is not o over the long
term. I mean you look at today for
instance uh oil is up 3% but gold is
only down 1%.
>> If you say it's a liquidation feature
who is liquidating a lot of people
thought it was central banks but from
what you were saying it sounds like it
was a lot of hedge fund liquidation and
the hedge fund element is changing the
dynamic behind the precious metal. Would
you say that that's true?
>> Well there's certainly more entrance
into the market. So broadly speaking,
yes, I we did see some central bank
selling, but really what we saw as
regards central banks, China remained a
buyer. The latest data at least anyway
shows that China remained a remained a
good buyer for the latest monthly data
that we have. Uh but some central banks
stopped buying and they had been a
keystone to the rally. So the removal of
a of a of a positive can also be viewed
as a negative. So even though they
weren't selling heavily except for a
couple, the fact that many of them were
no longer buying had a negative impact.
But we had a lot of fresh money coming
into the gold market for well over a
year. Uh uh and there's asset managers,
portfolio managers, hedge funds, some of
which had not traded gold for a while
and and some of them uh have liquidated.
And that I think was a larger element of
the of the decline. So hedge funds and
asset management asset managers of
various types are now the marginal price
setters of gold. Is that fair to say?
Which kind of if that were true sets a
very dynam different dynamic behind the
precious metal than perhaps uh has been
the case in years prior. No.
>> Well, and I'm old enough to remember
when when jewelry was the dominant
factor in in in the gold market in the
1990s. Uh jewelry was very important.
And now we've seen double-digit declines
in the jewelry market for the last
couple of years and it hasn't seemed by
itself to dent the rally. We've also
seen more uh mine supply. Uh and those
those factors up until recently haven't
dented the rally. It wasn't until the
investment demand declined that this
spare bullion on the physical market,
you know, made more of an impact on
prices going down. But I think it's been
I think it's fair to say that that that
those th those th those players have
always been the marginal factor in the
market. Investment moves in and out of
the market very quickly compared to
particularly uh in in the futures
markets more than the ETFs and the OTC
markets than than uh you know
traditional jewelry coins, bars and mine
supply.
>> Can we get some more detail from you on
the central bank buying that's been a
massive tailwind for this particular
trade? Many of these central banks,
these economists right now face say a
terms of trade shock and to your point
they need to accommodate that and they
certainly don't want to be reducing
their exposure to their own domestic
currency by selling whatever by buying
gold for instance. So can you walk us
through what's going to happen once this
war ends with that central bank buy?
when the war ends, I think that uh and
and assuming that oil prices then
moderate and uh the dollar uh uh maybe
uh takes a back view rather than being
as strong as it is as it is now, I think
we're likely to see a resumption at
least at some level of central bank
buying. Now for 2022, 2023, 2024,
they bought,00 tons just just shy of,00
tons each of those years. And if you
look at it in terms of mine production,
it was almost out one out of every three
ounces that came out of the ground went
into a central bank vault. That's an
enormously that that was double the
previous 10-year average. Uh and and
that cooled quite a bit to 860 odd tons
last year and we think it will cool
further this year because we haven't
seen a lot of buying so far. But central
banks uh tend to have long-term
strategies. Uh a number of central banks
have have published position papers on
why gold is a good thing to own. And
assuming that the US will continue to
run a current account deficit, uh we
will we will export dollars. Those
dollars will acrue in central banks that
we are running a current account deficit
with. And one of the things those
central banks may may buy
assuming that they don't use it all for
other foreign exchange uh instrument or
fixed income instruments you know will
will be gold.
>> James appreciate your time as always.
Thank you sir. James still there of HSBC
on a gold trade that's come a little bit
undone over the last few months.
>> I can't help but wonder what some of
these gold vaults look like in all the
different places. Do they all have sort
>> Wasn't the president asked about Fort
Knox recently?
>> Yeah. Thank you to to to ours. I could
have
year ago.
>> Okay. Well,
>> the the insurance policy changed.
>> Oh, you can't take us in anymore.
>> No, maybe maybe you guys. I don't know.
I'll ask. Let's figure that out.
>> But to me, can't you imagine different
themes? You walk in.
>> Wasn't the Treasury Secretary going to
take us in?
>> I I honestly I would love to just shine
[music] the steel teal.
>> At the Austrian Central Bank, there used
to be a gold bar
>> in the entrance way in the hallway. You
could put your hand in and [music] you
could pick it up
>> or not pick it up. It's
>> the first gold bar I've ever held. It's
ridiculously heavy.
>> Was it a good weight?
>> Much heavier than I thought it [music]
would be.
>> That's why you have to wear steel to
right. It's crazy. Crazy.
>> Up next, Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler.
>> Equity futures on the S&P pulling back
just a tenth of 1%. The oven and bell
about 1 hour away. On the NASDAQ at the
moment also negative, but not by a lot,
not even by a tenth. The Russell just
about unchanged. The gains [music]
continued through last week. We add some
more weight to the rally. And this move
in crude does not upend it. Brent and
WTI shifting higher by just a few
percentage points. This is the issue
right now. So [music] many people have
become desensitized to the headlines
coming out of the Middle East. Even a
crude market in both directions.
>> And what you're seeing right now is the
glut on the seas [music] that has been
able to offset some of the losses in
production. A belief that things will
get resolved possibly now by June or
July. If you take a look at prediction
markets [music] and the fact that a lot
of people think that maybe you can find
alternative routes at the same time
everyone's just focused on the story
they know which is that AI is changing
our world and people are spending a lot
of money at it and that's why they're
piling in
>> those inventories just sitting [music]
on top of prices right now just keeping
things contained just about that moving
crude push it through fixed income the
grind [music] high continues 2's 1030s
yields up three basis points this
morning 39160
and that right there is the challenge
for the incoming Fed Chair Kevin Walsh.
Kevin Walsh faces a committee that's
divided and split, an unemployment rate
that's close to four, CPI, which later
this week might also be close to [music]
four. They've still got an easing bias,
and the market is telling you, "Nope,
you're not cutting. In fact, [music]
we're going to have twos above the
policy rate." That's notable.
>> Treasury Secretary uh Scott Besson gave
[music] him a pass, Kevin Worsh, that he
could potentially sit on his hands when
he comes in. His challenge is going to
be laying out why they should maintain
an easing bias given the fact that
inflation is running hotter than
expected and the rates where they are do
not seem to be constraining growth. I am
curious though about the Treasury's
response and I do [music] think that the
auctions this week are going to be
interesting. We do have $42 billion of
tenure notes being sold tomorrow. If you
start to get messy auctions, how much is
it over to you Scott Bessant to see how
you are going to rearrange some of your
issuance plans to offset some of the
creep higher that we're seeing in
long-term yields? You mentioned Dan
Iverson, PIMCO's very own legendary
investor to the Financial Times over the
weekend. [music] You're going to see
more tightening as it looks today in
Europe, the UK, and maybe even Japan. I
wouldn't take it completely off the
table for the US either. Now, there's
people you listen to in financial
markets. There's people that I [music]
understand you sort of turn the volume
down for. I get it. Dan Iverson is the
kind of guy you turn the volume up for.
for him to say that I think it's
important and to some extent reflected
that risk just slightly reflected in
this yield [music] curve.
>> So PIMCO is looking at the potential for
the next move to even be a hike and it's
remote right now but the potential as
[music] Dan Iverson laid out he's not
alone. Bank of America pushing back
their first rate cut to 2027. Goldman
Sachs pushing back [music] their first
cut to the end of this year. Everyone
just saying the Barta cut is that much
higher and potentially the bar [music]
to hike is getting just a little bit
lower.
>> Just a little bit lower. That's for
sure. That's the cross asset setup. The
opening bell some 60 minutes away as we
count you down. Let's get you some
morning movers. Some single names. Danny
Burgerer has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey Don. The excitement over semis
continues this morning until some of the
heat of the biggest of its rally in the
pre-market taken off but still up 4%
after a huge rally last week again
alongside the Philadelphia stocks index
which is sitting at new records as is
Intel. It got a little extra of its own
boost with some reporting on Friday that
[music] it was reaching an agreement uh
with Apple to supply it with some chips.
So again, those shares up four and a3%.
[music]
Elsewhere, we have some of the
constituent changes official for the
NASDAQ 100. And Lumenum is going to be
added to it. This [music] is an AI
photonix company. I wish I could tell
you exactly what that is, but something
with optics necessary to power AI data
centers. So, of course, it's a hot
stock. It's up about 30% this year. So,
that gets added to the NASDAQ 100 and
gets a lot of passive flow alongside it.
[music] Finally, Circle out with
earnings. A clean beat for them. Shares
up 1.8%. They saw record transaction
volume in the first quarter for their
stable coin USDC. Uh they're also
deploying an AI agent that will allow
you to buy, trade, whatever you want to
do and transact with their stable coin.
So those shares up just under 2%. John
>> Danny, thanks for the update. Looking
forward to the program. Danny Burgerer
taking things [music] over in about 30
minutes time to guide you into the cash
open just around the corner. Investors
are waiting big week a big week of
economic data with CPI and PPI just
around the corner. Plus retail sales
later this week as well. Mike McKe has a
preview. Morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we're going to
make you pay attention to the economy
again. Maybe put the war to the side for
a bit unless something happens. We've
got a big week ahead, especially for Fed
watchers. We get Kevin Worsh's
confirmation vote sometime this week.
The Senate is expected to vote to end
Cloer on it tonight and then they could
vote any time. He would take over on
Friday, the changing of the Fed Guard as
the new chair. Steven Myron would fall
off the committee. We also have a lot of
eco reports on inflation, inflation, and
inflation starting tomorrow with the
consumer price index. Going to be very
interesting because this one's going to
have some twists to it. Everybody's
going to be looking at gasoline prices,
but it's not just gasoline. We're going
to see a rise in owner's equivalent
rent, the uh cost of housing based on a
statistical data uh quirk that comes
from the month of October when the
government had to leave rate uh leave
the uh number unchanged because of the
government shutdown. So, we're going to
see an artificial rise in the CPI.
Wednesday, we get PPI uh and then
Thursday, import prices. So, three days
of inflation numbers in a row. Thursday
is also retail sales. Little early, but
uh are we starting to see gasoline
prices eat into consumer expenditures?
That's going to be the question
everybody's looking at. Friday, we get
some manufacturing reports, the Empire
and the industrial production numbers.
So, a lot to watch for this week. Uh
beginning with maybe the vote on Kevin
Worsh and ending with Worsh taking over
as the new Fed chair.
>> Mike McKe setting the stage for the week
ahead. Mike, appreciate it. Thank you.
Nancy Lazar of Piper Sander writing,
"The Iran war could keep headline
inflation elevated, but core inflation
is set to slow." Nancy joins us now for
more. Nancy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with the inflation backdrop.
Sure. Core inflation is set to slow.
What's the reason for that?
>> Well, I'll stop at the I'll start at the
top, which is unit labor costs. It's a
combination of compensation, wage
inflation adjusted for productivity.
Everyone talks about productivity um but
not about unit labor costs, which is an
offshoot from that. And we looks like in
the first quarter, we don't have
official data yet, but looks like in the
first quarter, unit labor costs probably
increased only 2% on a year-over-year
basis. They were good signal back in
2020 2021 when they also accelerated
sharply up towards 6% confirmed the
acceleration in core. That's just not
happening today. So, it's really uh the
productivity story coupled with still
moderate wage gains or core inflation
that would be the at the top of the
list. Uh core inflation to slow, but in
addition, you have the shelter
component. It'll be a little bit of a
sticking point in the uh in the April
data, but uh shelter inflation is also
uh set to slow. And then tariffs, the
tariff rate for now is down. Um and so
we're likely to see also some
disinflation, if not deflation actually
in some of the core goods.
>> Just to extend that just a little bit,
is that also another way of saying that
consumer price tolerance is lower now
versus 22.
>> Oh, absolutely. This is nothing like 22.
Contrary to the University of Michigan
survey, which suggests this is worse
than 22, uh this is nothing like 20 uh
2022. You had the monetary conditions
and fiscal policy conditions to support
the surge in inflation. Uh you know
Milton Friedman always says inflation is
indeed a monetary always a monetary
phenomena. Money growth has picked up
some not not aggressive. It's about four
and a half 5%. You were double digit in
money supply growth uh during the co
after the co covid crisis.
>> So if you're not passing if you're not
increasing uh hiring in any way already
and you've already cut some of the
hiring plans in order to offset some of
the higher costs which is what a lot of
companies have done right. haven't
necessarily sped up hiring and you're
not able to pass it along to consumers
in terms of higher prices. At what point
does this hit margins?
>> So, let me pull apart what you just
asked a couple of different ways. First,
companies are hiring private employment
based on the payroll employment data was
a record high uh in in in April. It also
hit a record high in March. There was
some skepticism about that. They revised
actually March data uh March data up.
Unemployment claims are clearly in a
declining trend. They are the single
best economic statistic. We have data
there through late March through late
April into early early May. Indeed, uh
even claims are suggesting the
employment backdrop is is um is under
pressure. The answer to your question is
productivity. Again, I I don't mean to
be redundant, but companies are focused
on productivity. They're becoming more
efficient. Um I do think some companies
could see profit margin squeeze. No
question about it. If you are a consumer
company, if you're a low-end consumer
company and you are trying to support
your profits through higher prices,
you're in trouble. What we're seeing in
a lot of the restaurants, I'm out of my
league here, but a lot of the
restaurants, they're cutting prices
because they know they have at at the
same time they have to uh support that
uh spending for the lower consumer. But
what I don't know is what kind of new
technologies are these consumer
companies putting in place to indeed
improve their productivity. So
productivity is really underappreciated
as a major support.
>> There are two ways to view productivity.
On one hand, post pandemic, people just
were forced to do more with less and
companies all realized they had to. And
so it led to a wave of productivity that
has continued today.
>> And then there's other uh view on
productivity which is that AI is already
making gains and you're seeing that come
through in the productivity numbers.
Which is it?
>> Well, I lean towards more the latter.
But it's not just AI. It's utilizing
other tools, other technology tools that
we've been using forever to also improve
our product uh improve our productivity.
Without productivity, you can improve
profitability. I gave you Germany. Uh
they have not improved productivity for
the past decade uh if not longer. They
have no employment growth uh as a result
of that because they can't improve their
profitability. So there are two stages
to productivity. Coming out of
recession, productivity surges or out of
a slump, productivity surges because
growth is stronger than employment. But
as you move through the cycle, what's
really impressive, and this is what
happened in the 1990s, you get both. You
get stronger productivity and you get
employment because profits are so
strong. In the first quarter, S&P 500
earnings are on track to be up 25 to
30%. Uh so the profit backdrop is
definitely supportive of stronger jobs.
>> Is Walsh cutting rates this year?
>> I I don't think the Fed needs to cut
rates. Again, you have already somewhat
accommodative monetary policy. Uh the
Fed has cut rates 175 basis points.
Money growth is accelerating. Bank loans
have picked up. Heliloc loans have
picked up. And uh we have roughly 2%
fiscal support for the economy. Um and
so we actually calculate 4% GDP from
both monetary and fiscal support for the
economy here in 2020 uh 2026. The last
thing we need is additional monetary
stimulus. The combo of the two obviously
2020 2021 created the problem. Uh modern
monetary theory is dead. You can't put
together both stimulative monetary and
fiscal. Right now I'd say we're just
right uh given the headwinds that we're
facing. Uh but also you have these
really really supportive tailwinds
>> and buried a few years ago. Let's just
finish on Kevin Walsh and this Federal
Reserve. What is the value of an easing
bias right now?
>> Well, at the margin, it is supporting
financial markets. Uh no question about
it. And so financial markets also help
to support uh economic uh economic
economic activity. Um I don't mind the
easing bias. Uh I would be a little bit
more concerned if we were actually to
get rate cuts with this combo of both
stimulative, monetary, and fiscal. Some
people might argue the easing bias right
now is is doubbish enough given the
backdrop we've got.
>> Arguably that's what the financial
conditions indexes are showing you given
the fact that we have the expectation of
some of the biggest IPOs in history on
deck and bond sales are going gang
busters. So yeah, I wouldn't say that it
seems overly restrictive.
>> What a year ahead. Just a final
question. You took a jab at you Mitch.
More than just a jab. That was a
three-punch combo. Let's finish on you
Mitch. What is the value of you? You
once upon a time drove this Federal
Reserve Yeah.
>> under this chairman to high rates more
aggressively than they otherwise was
going to. It seemed to be valuable a few
years ago. Why is it no longer valuable?
>> Well, it surveys only a thousand
consumers every month. We survey we have
a daily consumer confidence survey. We
survey 500 consumers every day on a uh I
I pay a professional polling company to
do this. We survey 10,000 consumers
every month. The conference board is I
think closer to 3,000. their sample size
is just too small. Um and so
unfortunately it is a misleading
indicator.
>> What does your indicator tell me right
now?
>> Our indicator has come down to the same
level it was during the government
shutdown. Um kind of in line at the co
at the COVID low way above the GFC way
above the GFC uh uh C low. Um it's the
same level. It's higher than it was
rather in 2022 when GDP did stall out
because you had the oil surge, bond
yield surge, and the Fed began
tightening. You're way above that. So
it's down. But importantly, it's down.
At the same time, unemployment claims
are up. I have this uh this it kind of
drives me nuts that the community thinks
we're a one variable economy. We're not.
Beet oil isn't the only thing that
drives growth. Confidence isn't the only
thing that drives consumer spending. You
have to look at the job market and
claims are telling you the job market's
getting stronger.
>> Nancy, it's good to see you. Thank you,
Nancy Lazar of Piper Sandler. That felt
right. That just feels more right. Does
that sit better with you?
>> 100%. I think that that's an accurate
reflection of where we are. And I
thought that uh you know the idea of
productivity and the idea of exactly
what's feeding into some of this
optimism reflects frankly what we're
seeing in markets right now. It seems
like a more realistic take.
>> What we're seeing right now is markets
down just a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500
with an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant is heading to Asia for meetings
in Japan and South Korea. [music]
Bessant will meet with Japan's prime
minister and China's vice premere before
meeting with President Trump in Beijing
for his summit with Chinese President
Xiinping [music]
on Thursday.
Alphabet is on the verge of overtaking
Nvidia as the world's most [music]
valuable company with just 400 billion
in market cap between them. Alphabet is
taking the lead in nearly every aspect
of AI technology. Alphabet recording its
best month in April since 2004.
And Cerebras is boosting its IPO now
targeting up to $4.8 billion. The AI
chipmaker raised both its share [music]
counts and price range as demand surges.
Orders are already more than 20 times
over subscribe and that could value the
company at about $34 [music] billion.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> the demand endures, that's for sure.
Yahara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, we'll set you up for the week
ahead. Plus, we'll catch up [music] with
Jessica Novasquez of Marquette
Associates with stocks holding near
all-time highs. Live from New York
[music] City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> [music]
>> I would have said that by now we would
be in more serious trouble than we are.
People have been saying one thing and
doing another. So the spending has been
coming through. Retail sales have been
strong. You've seen reasonably good hard
economic statistics versus the soft data
stuff. [music]
>> That was Sarah Hun of Alpine Saxs and
Words on this epic bull market run.
Equity futures this morning pulling back
just a little bit. We're down by 0.2% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ down by a quarter
of 1%. We've talked about the move in
crude, [music] just not a big one. It's
3%. It's 98 on WTI. On Brent, it's 104.
This could change once the president
outlines his [music] next steps,
whatever those next steps might be. But
as things stand, all we know so far is
that the proposal coming from the
Iranian side is quote totally
unacceptable. [music] And that's about
that. All everyone else thinks now from
this market is that the president is
committed to deescalating and wants to
stay on a diplomatic path. If that
changes, this will change. But that
hasn't changed this morning.
>> That's the key to me, exactly that, that
both sides seem to be committed to this
idea of remaining [music] on a path to
deescalate if the bar truly is getting
that much lower for military escalation
[music] perhaps after the summit between
Xiinping and President Trump. Does that
shift and how much will the market
respond then to some sort of military
action?
>> Headlines like this aren't helpful. It
comes from Iranian state media that Iran
says it's deployed deep roaming
submarines through the straight of
former. you know, those kind of things
are not going to encourage risk appetite
too much.
>> I you would assume, although there have
been a lot of headlines and it's unclear
exactly [music]
uh what that would be. Nonetheless,
submarines uh to try to stave off any of
the traffic or potentially
>> [music]
>> uh push out the blockade. The blockade
itself isn't something that can just
remain within a static way. It itself is
somewhat controversial, [music]
particularly for Iran.
>> The squeeze continues. It continues to
push yield higher as well by three basis
points, twos at 3, 9160 going into this
week. A [music] big week ahead. Tomorrow
we've got CPI data. That's the big event
tomorrow morning. On Wednesday, [music]
PPI on Thursday, the president catching
up with the Chinese leader Xi Jinping in
China with the Chinese [music]
president. On Thursday, also some
economic data worthy of a mention,
retail sales and another round of
claims. And on Friday, a bit of a
milestone, a landmark if you will. The
president on his way, the chairman
[music] on his way to the exit at the
Federal Reserve. Chairman Pal steps out
and you end up with Kevin Walsh [music]
stepping in and keeping Chairman Pal as
Governor Pal as company for a little
bit.
>> So number one, will Kevin Worsh actually
[music] be confirmed in time to take the
helm as Fed chair? And what will a Kevin
Worsh Fed look like? Yes, people are
going to be focused on the fact that Jay
[music] Powell will remain on that's
almost a sideeshow though to exactly
what is the framework coming from the
new Fed chair.
>> It's a conversation for later this week
in the here and now 40 minutes away from
the opening bell. Equity futures
shifting just a little bit lower.
Jessica Novaskus of Marquette Associates
writing, "Now AI is the focus once
again. Markets in the economy are
fragile and vulnerable to a crack in the
story. The sell-off could be bigger and
sharper than those of the past." Jessica
joins us now for more. Jessica, welcome
to the program. There were a couple of
words in your note that jumped off the
page for me. Rational and discerning.
How rational and discerning has this
market been?
>> It's a big question. We've seen
perpetual market strength. We've looked
through worst case scenarios. We are
entirely pricing markets off of the good
things that are happening, the earnings,
and we are ignoring the risks and the
war and the potential for inflation and
and maybe rate hikes. Uh I think the
market can last this while for until
they can't really, which is a really
hard way to trade markets.
>> Where do you think in stocks right now
we should be pricing the tension in the
Middle East?
Yeah, I think with the ceasefire, the
proof that we had last week that really
no one is looking to escalate this, uh I
think that gives the market sort of
credibility to look through this and I
think they're really empowered by the
Fed looking through this. The Fed
maintained their easing bias. So why
shouldn't investors uh sort of maintain
that same outlook? Then you pair that
with very strong earnings with the AI
story roaring back huge numbers of capex
huge earnings and I think there is
enough good to look through when that's
the market's bias from the start. I I do
think that they are failing to price in
any risks which either works or it
doesn't at some point. How do you price
in risks, Jessica, at a time where
earnings are coming through in a really
positive way, fueling this belief that
right now the haven might be in some of
these tech names?
>> I I think the haven certainly is in the
tech names and I think that that is
fair. I think that this AI story is real
and the spend will continue coming. You
are expecting that there is a return on
these investments at some point that
this continues to develop in the way
that it is. If it doesn't, and I am not
smart enough to call the crack now, but
there's a few different ways that we
could see a hiccup in the AI trade or a
crack in the AI trade and then I think
that becomes a really big issue. I think
it's hard for markets though to prepare
for that to do like a weighted average
base like we used to do in the old days.
I think that that is sort of not an
option if you want to continue to
participate in market trends. So, it's
sort of play the market's game, but
sleep with one eye open because if we do
see the crack, I think it could be
really intense given how much momentum
has built up in the market.
>> Does a balanced portfolio look
differently today than say a year ago as
a result of some of the risks that
you're looking to hedge against?
>> Yeah, certainly for us, uh, it's not the
6040 anymore. I don't think that that
provides effective diversification for a
portfolio. It's really about integrating
alternatives and private markets in a
really thoughtful way. Um, you have to
be cognizant of liquidity constraints
and you have to really make sure you're
doing your manager due diligence. You're
locking up capital with these managers.
But I think that sort of bringing in
those truly different return streams is
really critical to portfolio
performance.
>> Hey Jessica, great to catch up and get
an update for you from you. Thanks for
making time for us. Jessica Novcus there
of market associates, Marquette
Associates. It's difficult to be bearish
on this market when you've got the likes
of HSBC forecasting 20% EPS growth for
this year. That's phenomenal growth for
the equity market.
>> And you've seen similar uh discussion
coming from Laura Cavsina as well as
Edard Denny. There have been others that
have upgraded their forecast for the
overall S&P 500 and for tech stocks. uh
even as they push out the possibility of
rate cuts, people are pricing in a bull
market and they're pricing in the most
possible the best possible melt up. Then
you get headlines like this one about
submarines mining uh this rate of
remuse. How will this market respond to
a reescalation given that most people
believe that a deescalation is squarely
what's the base case?
>> There is that much sensitivity. I
wouldn't say there is no sensitivity.
There is reduced sensitivity this to
this story. But the moment that headline
crossed from Iranian state media that
Iran saying it's deployed deep roaming
submarines through the straight of there
was a drop off in the equity market. But
it was about that big. It really was
tiny. And this shows how much people
really do have faith that both sides do
not really have any benefit to
reescalate. This week's going to be
really interesting. And you asked a
question earlier today that I think is
going to come into the main frame much
more significantly. Inflation yields
creeping higher. Given the fact that we
get CPI, then PPI, and then retail
sales, the tolerance of consumers to
this inflationary impulse. If you see
all of these readings come in hotter
than expected, does the yield picture
start to pressure some of this
enthusiasm? And the backdrop, a backdrop
of uncomfortable calm right now and
quiet around the story in the Middle
East, eerily quiet. The president has
called the proposal from Iran totally
unacceptable. And yet here we are
waiting for the president's next steps
and we don't know what those next steps
will be for the now for the here and
now. The market's comfortable with the
earnings backdrop, comfortable with
stocks where they are happy to go into
small caps or rather into semis and a
big rally we've had in chip stocks. But
to your point, that can change and that
can change through the fixed income
channel. Energy up, rates up, story can
change
>> and through the diplomatic channel. What
[music] does come out of those meetings
in China later this week given the fact
that potentially China has a role to
play in leverage over Iran.
>> Coming up tomorrow, full coverage of
that CPI report. We'll catch up with
Russ Costrick at Black Rockck, Ed
Yardeni. A big bullish price target from
him. We'll catch up with Ed tomorrow.
Elizabeth Economy of the Hoover
Institute on China and the meeting in
Beijing with the two leaders and Michael
Gapen of Morgan Stanley from New York
City. [music] Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.